
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

RIVERSIDE 



GIFT OF 



ADDRESSES: HISTORICAL AND 
UNIVERSITY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

NEW YORK BOSTON CHICAGO DALLAS 
ATLANTA SAN FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN &amp; CO., LIMITED 

LONDON BOMBAY CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD. 

TORONTO 



UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL 
ADDRESSES 



DELIVERED DURING A RESIDENCE IN THE 

UNITED STATES AS AMBASSADOR 

OF GREAT BRITAIN 




Nefo fforfc 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
1913 

All rights rtttrvtd 



Ad? 

B79 



COPYRIGHT, 1913, 
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY. 



Set up and electrotyped. Published May, 1913. 



Nortnocti 

J. 8. Gushing Co. Berwick &amp; Smith Co. 
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



ELIHU ROOT 

IN ADMIRATION AND FRIENDSHIP 



PREFACE 

DURING six years spent in Washington it has 
been my duty, and also my pleasure, to travel hither 
and thither over the United States, responding, 
so far as time and strength permitted, to requests 
to address Universities, Bar Associations, Chambers 
of Commerce, and many other public organizations 
of diverse kinds. Out of the many addresses deliv- 
ered either to these bodies or in commemoration 
of some person or event, I have selected a few, 
the subjects of which seemed to possess a more 
than passing interest, and of which I had happened 
to keep notes, enabling the substance to be re- 
produced. In revising them for publication some 
additions have been made, while matters of a local 
or purely occasional character have been omitted. 
The audiences to which the academic addresses 
were delivered consisted chiefly of undergraduate 
or graduating students. 

The enjoyment which I had derived from my 
earlier visits to the United States was renewed and 
enhanced by the warmth with which I found myself 
received and by the encouragement given me to 
speak on all non-political topics as freely as if I had 
been a citizen of the United States. 



viii PREFACE 

I desire to take this opportunity of returning my 
sincere thanks to those who, in the places where 
these addresses were delivered, and in scores of 
other cities which I have visited for the like pur- 
pose, gave me that encouragement, and extended to 
me a welcome the heartiness of which I can never 
forget. 

WASHINGTON, 
April 20, 1913. 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA i 

WHAT UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION MAY DO TO PROVIDE INTEL- 
LECTUAL PLEASURES FOR LATER LIFE . . . 15 
THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS IN 1620 33 
THE INFLUENCE OF NATIONAL CHARACTER AND HISTORICAL 
ENVIRONMENT ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON 

LAW 41 

THE CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION ... 73 
THOMAS JEFFERSON : THIRD PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES 

AND FOUNDER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA . .107 

MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 125 

THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 151 

THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 171 

ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 181 

THE CHARACTER AND CAREER OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN . .197 

THE SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND IN AMERICA . . 205 

WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE .... 227 

ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 247 

THE TERCENTENARY OF THE DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 265 

SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 281 

SPECIAL AND GENERAL EDUCATION IN UNIVERSITIES . . 299 

THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 317 

ON THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY . . . 339 

SOME HINTS ON READING 365 

NATIONAL PARKS THE NEED OF THE FUTURE . . . 389 

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES .... 407 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT JAMESTOWN ISLAND, VIRGINIA, APRIL 17, 
1907, ON THE TERCENTENARY OF THE FIRST ENGLISH SETTLE- 
MENT IN VIRGINIA. 



UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL 
ADDRESSES 

THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT JAMESTOWN ISLAND, VIRGINIA, APRIL 17, 
1907, ON THE TERCENTENARY OF THE FIRST ENGLISH SETTLE- 
MENT IN VIRGINIA. 

ON this day three hundred years ago two small ships 
and a pinnace coming from England by way of the 
Canary Islands and the West Indies anchored here 
and landed their passengers, being about one hundred 
and twenty persons in number, upon this Island. 
They came from London under a charter from the 
King, James the First of England and Sixth of Scotland, 
by which there was claimed for the Crown of England 
the whole of North America between the thirty-fourth 
and forty-fifth degrees of latitude, being the territory 
then called Virginia. In the London which these set- 
tlers had just left, Shakespeare was then living. Some 
of them may have seen him, perhaps with Ben Jonson 
beside him, watching the first performance of Hamlet 
four or five years before. Sir Francis Bacon the one 
name naturally suggests the other was living, though 
not yet Lord Chancellor. Some of the emigrants may 

3 



4 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

have heard him arguing cases in the courts. John 
Milton was born the next year; Sir Walter Raleigh 
was a man of fifty-five and then a prisoner in the Tower 
of London ; Sir Philip Sidney had been killed at Zutphen 
in 1586 and Edmund Spenser had died in 1599; Pym 
was a youth of seventeen; John Hampden a boy of 
seven ; Oliver Cromwell a boy of eight. 

The England of those famous men was the England 
whence the emigrants came, a land fitted to give 
birth to large and noble enterprises. Measured by 
what it did for the world, it was a great England, 
with great poets, great thinkers, and strong men who 
did great deeds. Never before and never since has 
such a constellation of brilliant and memorable names 
glittered in the English sky. But measured by popu- 
lation, England was a little nation, though her states- 
men and sailors had not long before won immortal 
fame by their defeat of the Invincible Armada. There 
were only some five million inhabitants in the country. 
Ireland was still but half conquered, and Scotland, 
though her King had lately inherited the English throne, 
was a distinct and not too friendly kingdom. And 
the settlers were few indeed to venture on the task of 
occupying the vast continent on which they were 
landing. How feeble must their enterprise have seemed 
to the men of Spain, which held not only Mexico and 
the immense territories north of Mexico, but also the 
whole of South America and all the Antilles ! But 
God had chosen the weak things of the world to con- 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 5 

found the things which were mighty, and the things 
which were not to bring to nought the things that were. 
The Empire of Spain was to decay and dissolve and 
vanish away, while from this spot, this islet two miles 
long, where now we see nothing but a few moulder- 
ing walls, the power of another race was to spread 
out to the Alleghanies and beyond them to the Missis- 
sippi, and thence to the Rocky Mountains and the far- 
off coasts of the Pacific. The oak of English dominion 
on the continent of North America lay hidden hi the 
acorn that was planted on this island in the James 
River, just as the germ of English dominion in the 
East was to be found in the charter that had been 
granted by 'Queen Elizabeth to the East India Company 
seven years before this settlement. 

The landing of these few men was one of the great 
events in the history of the world an event to be com- 
pared for its momentous consequences with the over- 
throw of the Persian Empire^ by Alexander; with the 
destruction of Carthage by Rome ; with the conquest of 
Gaul by Clovis ; with the taking of Constantinople by 
the Turks one might almost say with the discovery of 
America by Columbus. Did any idea of the magni- 
tude of this event rise in the minds of the little band 
of settlers when they read their Royal charter on board 
ship before landing; or when they held their first 
religious service and set to the building of their fort, 
a rude stockade called after the King, "James Town," 
and began to sow their fields with wheat, and build that 



6 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tiny church which the pious care of this generation is 
restoring ? There is nothing to show that they had any 
such presentiments. Many a settlement tried before 
upon the American coasts had failed since the half- 
mythic and by that time long-forgotten landing 
of Erik the Red in the far Northeast ; and they had 
other things than the distant future to think of, for the 
Spanish power to the south of them, though then nomi- 
nally at peace, was jealous of their intrusion, and the 
Indians around them were suspicious and hostile. But 
of them it may be said that they, and those who sent 
them forth from England, had the true spirit of practi- 
cal men who saw the opportunity which a new country 
offered to a growing people. They were of the stuff 
which makes good settlers, and they did that which the 
needs of the time required. 

All the dangers and difficulties that were seen or 
foreseen they overcame. The power of the mother 
country kept them safe against the jealous bitterness 
of Spain. They soon proved themselves able to repel 
any attacks from the native Indians, and presently 
ceased to fear these enemies, though they had for many 
years to stand on guard against them. They suffered 
so severely from malarial fevers, for in those days the 
value of quinine as a remedy had not yet become known, 
that after ninety-three years the colonial legislature 
decided to remove itself from James Town island to 
Williamsburg, eight miles to the northeast, and at last, 
in 1780, the capital of Virginia was planted on the higher 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 7 

and healthier ground of Richmond. But one mis- 
take was committed, destined to breed troubles far 
worse than any which Indians or sickness threatened. 
Twelve years after the first settlement, a Dutch ship 
landed a cargo of African negroes, the first that ever 
came into the dominions of the English Crown. This 
step a step taken with no prevision of all that was 
to issue from it, and one for which the colonists them- 
selves were not to blame established the system of 
agricultural slave labor in North America, a system 
which we can now see to have been, apart from the 
other objections to it, uneconomic and unnecessary ; for 
those who have studied, in the light of modern science, 
the physical conditions of Virginia and the country south 
and southwest of it, tell us that nearly all the area of the 
States in which slavery existed seventy years ago, all, in 
fact, except the hottest and dampest regions along the 
coast, could be cultivated by the labour of white men. 
The country would, no doubt, have been developed more 
slowly, but there would have been no Civil War and 
no race problems such as now occupy your thoughts. 
Let it not be forgotten, however, that Virginia was the 
first community in the world to recognize the evils 
which the slave trade brought with it. Not only did 
she, in colonial days, seek in vain to check or abolish it, 
but in 1778, in the first years of her independence, when 
both in England and in the Northern States powerful 
interests were still defending and supporting the slave 
trade, she absolutely forbade the bringing of any slaves 



8 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

into her territory. And you know how many of 
the greatest Virginians, George Mason and Thomas 
Jefferson among them, sought to rid their State of 
slavery. 

Let us, however, return to those first founders of 
Virginia whom we are to-day commemorating. Of 
the qualities that distinguished them, one, the spirit 
of adventure, was common to them with many others 
who had crossed the Western Sea. Think of Columbus 
when he first showed the path that so many were to 
follow ; of Magellan when he threaded his way through 
the savage solitudes of the Strait that bears his name, 
and traversed week after week and month after month, 
with a crew part of which had lately been in mutiny 
against him, hard-pressed by thirst and hunger and 
scurvy, the seemingly boundless wastes of the unknown 
Pacific. Think of Champlain and La Salle when they 
found their way among fierce Indian tribes, through the 
Northern forests or along the shores of the Great Lakes 
as far as the Mississippi. For mere daring and self- 
reliant hardihood no expedition has ever surpassed, if 
indeed any has equalled, that of Hernando Cortez, 
when after burning his ships he marched up far away 
from the coast with a tiny band of cavaliers into the 
heart of the vast and warlike dominion of the Aztecs. 
But there was another quality in which our country- 
men and your forefathers stood preeminent. They 
came from a free country, though its freedom had not 
yet been placed on a secure foundation, for that was 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 9 

to be the work of the century that had just begun in 
England; and the spirit of liberty and the love of 
self-government glowed in their hearts. 

Herein lay the great contrast between the English of 
that day and the not less valiant adventurers who had 
already gone forth from Spain. That the former went 
to cultivate the soil and the latter primarily to win gold 
and silver, whether by conquest or by the discovery 
of mines, is a difference that has often been dwelt 
upon. But the future fortunes of the two sets of emi- 
grants were even more affected by the difference in 
their political temper and ideas. The Englishmen, 
though loyal to their sovereign at home, were not dis- 
posed to acquiesce in the uncontrolled rule of his 
deputies. They had a company to represent in Eng- 
land their needs and wishes, and they soon set up in 
the new land a system of local courts and assemblies, 
modelled on the lines and principles of that which they 
had left behind. They valued this inherited freedom, 
and as the enjoyment of it had strengthened the charac- 
ter and developed the independent and self-reliant spirit 
of the individual citizen during three centuries in 
England, so it began to do the same wholesome work 
on these remote and silent shores. 

Modern writers have speculated as to what was 
the cargo that these three vessels carried. Of that we 
know less than we could wish. Bibles and prayer- 
books they certainly had, for they were God-fearing 
men, and one of their prime objects was " the planting 



io UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of Christianity amongst heathens." Whether they 
had any law books does not appear. But they carried 
in their breasts the principles and traditions of the 
common law of England, which of all the legal systems 
that have ever been framed is the one most fully per- 
vaded with the spirit of liberty and the most favorable 
to the development of personal self-reliance and indi- 
vidual responsibility. That spirit showed itself from 
the first among the colonists of Virginia. They soon 
organized their Assembly and began to govern them- 
selves so far as the King allowed them. They were 
well supported by the Virginia Company in London. 
Its debates and the liberal tendencies it evinced caused 
disquiet to the Court party and to the King, whose 
shrewd and suspicious mind already noted the rising 
of the wind which was to swell thirty-three years later 
into the tempest of the great Civil War. 

How the spirit of freedom and that assertion of 
individual rights which the doctrines of the Common 
Law favoured went on working through the annals of 
colonial Virginia as in those of the great sister and rival 
colony of Massachusetts ; how the same spirit prompted 
Virginia's action when an unwise English Ministry, 
ignorant of the circumstances and feelings of the colo- 
nists, blundered into a conflict which ended in their 
severance from England; how the greatest of all 
Virginians, clarum et venerabile nomen, led his colony 
and its fellow colonies in that conflict ; how the states- 
manship of Virginia, matured by the experience of 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA n 

nearly two centuries, bore its part, and an eminently 
useful part it was, in framing the Constitution of 1787, 
and gave to the Union four out of its five first Presi- 
dents; how one of Virginia's most illustrious sons, 
Chief Justice Marshall, so expounded and developed the 
Constitution as to become almost its second author, 
- of all this I must not here and now attempt to 
speak. Sixty years ago dark days descended upon 
Virginia. The fatal error committed in early years, 
from the consequences of which Virginia had vainly 
sought to extricate herself, had now borne fatal fruit. 
War came, with all the evils that war brings 
in its train, and on Virginia those evils fell more 
heavily than on any other State. Those were days of 
unspeakable sadness and suffering, suffering borne 
with the characteristic gallantry of Virginians, and 
they produced in Robert E. Lee one of the finest 
characters of that age, a man whose purity of heart 
and loftiness of soul live in the revering memory not of 
America only but of the world of English-speaking men. 
But out of the storm there emerged a State delivered 
from the blot of slavery, which has now regained its 
old prosperity, and there emerged also a national 
Republic more truly united than it ever was before. 
The jealousies of States, the antagonism of North and 
South, the rivalry of Virginia and Massachusetts, have 
now happily vanished in a far vaster nation. The 
Carolina of Calhoun and the Illinois of Lincoln can 
both look back without bitterness on those Virginia 



12 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

battle-fields where Lee and Grant won undying fame. 
The problems that occupy the thoughts of your people 
and tax to the utmost the wisdom of your statesmen, 
have, with one exception, that problem which slavery 
bequeathed, nothing to do with geographical boundaries. 
Never was there in this country so strong a sense that 
whatever the future may have in store, the Federal 
Union "an indestructible union of indestructible 
States" must and will be preserved. It is guarded 
not only by your national patriotism, but by nature 
herself, who has made your land one from the Atlantic 
to the Rocky Mountains, a land fit to be the home of 
one undivided nation. 

In this season of fair weather it is natural that your 
eyes should look back across the sea to the ancient 
Motherland, from whom you were for a time divided 
by clouds of misunderstanding that have now melted 
away into the blue. Between you and her there is 
now an affection and a sympathy such as perhaps 
there never was before in the days of your political 
connection. To-day she rejoices with you in your 
prosperity and your unity. She is proud of you, and 
among her many achievements there is none of which 
she is more proud than this, that she laid the foundation 
of your vast and splendid Republic, giving you those 
institutions under which, remodelled to suit your new 
conditions and your extended area, your ninety millions 
of people now live in peace in freedom. 

You have asked me to say what England's message 



THE BEGINNINGS OF VIRGINIA 13 

to America would be on this three hundredth anniver- 
sary of the birth of the American nation. 

On the occasion of the opening of the Jamestown 
Tercentenary Exposition a fortnight ago, I had the 
honour of transmitting to the President of the United 
States a greeting from the King and his Government 
in the following words : 

"On the occasion of the celebrations commemorating 
the tercentenary of the foundation of the first English 
settlement on the American continent at Jamestown 
and the birth of the American nation, his Majesty's 
Government wish to offer their warmest congratulations 
to the United States Government on the magnificent 
progress and development which have brought the 
United States into the first rank among the greatest 
nations of the world, not only in material prosperity, 
but also in culture and peaceful civilization. The 
connection which must ever exist in history between 
the British and American nations will never be for- 
gotten, and will contribute to increase and foster ties 
of affection between the two peoples." 

These words express the sentiment of the British 
people, their sentiment of affection and of pride, of 
pride in what you have done already, of hope for 
what you may do in the future. 

If any words were to be added in which Englishmen 
who have reflected upon your history and their own 
history would seek to convey their view of the teachings 
of English and American experience, I would ask : Could 



14 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the ancient Motherland with her recollections of four- 
teen centuries of national life and seven centuries of 
slow but steady constitutional development send to her 
mighty daughter a better message than this ? " Cherish 
alike and cherish together Liberty and Law. They are 
always inseparable. Without liberty, there is no true 
law, because where law expresses the will not of the 
whole community, but merely of an arbitrary ruler or 
a selfish class, it has neither moral force nor guarantee 
of permanence. Without order and law duly enforced 
and equal for all, there is no true liberty, for anarchy 
means that the rights of the gentle and the weak are 
overridden by the violent. In the union of ordered 
liberty with a law gradually remoulded from age to age 
to suit the changing needs of the people, has lain and 
will always lie the progress and peace both of Britain 
and of America." 



WHAT UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION MAY DO 
TO PROVIDE INTELLECTUAL PLEASURES 
FOR LATER LIFE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, JUNE u, 

1907. 



WHAT UNIVERSITY INSTRUCTION MAY DO 
TO PROVIDE INTELLECTUAL PLEASURES 
FOR LATER LIFE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO, JUNE n, 

1907. 

YOUR University is placed in a wonderful city. 
In the rapidity of its growth, in the expansion of its 
trade and population, it has no parallel in the modern 
world, not even in this Western world which has shown 
so many new and startling phenomena. It owes its 
prosperity, and it will owe that marvellous future to 
which it looks forward, to two things. One is the 
eager, ardent, restless spirit, keenly perceptive and 
unweariedly active, of your people. The other is 
modern science, which has made you the business 
centre of the great Northwest and has enabled vast 
industrial enterprises to be started all round the com- 
mercial heart of your city. James Watt and the other 
famous inventors who have followed him are the men 
who have made such a city as Chicago possible. Your 
people have turned the possibility into a reality. Two 
great departments of human activity, production and 
transportation, have been all over the world transformed 
by science, and the effect of the change is felt in every 
other department. 

c 17 



1 8 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

It must needs be felt in education also. Seventy 
years ago applied science was hardly taught at all in 
schools and universities, and theoretic science, except, 
of course, mathematics, not at all in schools and but 
little in universities. Now science has come to domi- 
nate the field of education, and in some countries is 
avenging herself for the contumely with which the 
old-fashioned curriculum used to treat her by now 
herself trying to relegate the study of language and 
literature to a secondary place. Nothing could have 
been more foolish than the way in which some old- 
fashioned classical scholars used to look down upon 
chemistry and physiology as vulgar subjects. But 
any men of science who wish to treat literature or 
history with a like arrogance will make just as great 
a mistake. 

In England there are some signs of this arrogance, 
and it is becoming necessary to insist upon the impor- 
tance of the human as opposed to the natural or scien- 
tific subjects. Whether this is the case here also 
you know better than I do. It need excite no surprise 
that there should be a general rush at present towards 
those branches of study which have most to promise 
in the way of success in life. But I am glad to 
know that in the greatest universities of America 
ample provision is made for, and all due encouragement 
is given to, the humanistic and literary subjects. As- 
suming this to be so, assuming that for the purposes 
of a general liberal education and also for the purpose 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 19 

of special preparation for the various professions and 
occupations, all lines of study are here alike recognized 
and efficiently taught, I pass to another aspect of 
what university education may accomplish. 

That which I ask you to join me in considering 
is the value and helpfulness to the individual man of 
scientific studies and of literary studies, respectively, 
not for success in any occupation or profession, nor 
for any other gainful purpose, but for what may be 
called the enjoyment of h'fe after the days of univer- 
sity education have ended. 

All education has two sides. It is meant to impart 
the knowledge, the skill, the habits of diligence and 
concentration which are needed to secure practical 
success. It is also meant to form character, to implant 
taste, to cultivate the imagination and the emotions, 
to prepare a man to enjoy those delights which be- 
long to hours of leisure and to the inner life which 
goes on, or ought to go on, all the time within his own 
breast. 

All study contains or implies the pleasure of putting 
forth our powers, of mastering difficulties, of acquiring 
new aptitudes, of making the mental faculties quick 
and deft like the fingers. It is a pleasure to see the 
intellect gleam and cut like a well-tempered and 
keen-edged sword. This kind of pleasure can be 
derived from all studies, though not from aU equally. 
Some give a better intellectual training than others; 
some are better fitted for one particular type of mind 



20 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

than for other types. But with these differences I do 
not propose to deal to-day. I want you to think of the 
training of the mind, not for work or display, but for 
enjoyment. 

Everyone of us ought to have a second or inner life 
of the intellect over and above that life which he leads 
among other men for the purposes of his avocation, be it 
to gain money or power or fame, or be it to serve his 
country or his neighbors. Considering himself as a 
Mind made to reflect and to enjoy, he ought to have 
some pursuit, some taste if you like, even some fad 
or hobby to which he can turn from the daily routine 
of his work for rest and for that change of occupation 
which is the best kind of rest, something round which 
his thoughts can play when he is alone and in which 
he can realize his independence of outward calls, his 
freedom from external demands and external restric- 
tions. Whatever the taste or pursuit be, whether of a 
higher or of a commoner type, to have it is a good thing 
for him. But of course the more wholesome and stimu- 
lating and elevating the taste or pursuit is, so much 
the better. 

Now the question I ask you to consider is this : 
What can instruction in natural science do, and what 
can instruction in the human or literary subjects do, 
to instil such tastes, to suggest such pursuits ? What 
sort of teaching and training can a university give to 
its student fit for him to carry away from the uni- 
versity as a permanent possession for his own private 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 21 

use and pleasure, to be added to by his exertions as he 
finds time and opportunity, not that he may be richer 
or more famous, but that he may be, if possible, wiser, 
and at any rate happier ? 

The study of any branch of natural science has one 
great charm in the fact that it opens possibilities of 
discovering new truth. There is hardly a branch of 
physics or chemistry, or of biology or natural history, 
in which the patient enquirer may not hope to extend 
the boundaries of knowledge. This is what makes 
physical science, as a professional occupation, so attrac- 
tive. The work is in itself interesting, perhaps even 
exciting, quite apart from any profit to one's self. 
One is occupied with what is permanent, one is in 
quest of reality, one may at any moment taste the thrill- 
ing pleasures of discovery. 

But such work requires in most departments an 
elaborate provision of laboratories and apparatus, and 
(in nearly all departments of research) an amount of time 
constantly devoted to observation and experiment which 
practically restricts it to those who make it the business 
of their life, and puts it out of the reach of persons 
actually engaged in some other occupation. Dis- 
coveries have been made by scientific amateurs. Ben- 
jamin Franklin and his contemporaries, Cavendish 
and Priestley, are cases in point. But this is increas- 
ingly difficult. Few lawyers or merchants or engi- 
neers or practising physicians can hope for time to 
enjoy this pleasure. The best that a scientific educa- 



22 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tion can do for them is to start them with enough 
knowledge to enable them to follow intelligently the 
onward march of scientific investigation. 

There is also a pleasure in meditating upon the ulti- 
mate problems of matter, force, and life, even if one 
cannot do anything toward solving them. The un- 
known appeals to our imagination, especially if we have 
imagination enough to feel that the unknown is all 
around us, and to realize the grandeur and solemnity 
of nature. You all remember the majestic lines in 
which the Roman poet declares his passionate 
desire that the divine mistresses of knowledge should 
explain to him the secrets of the universe : 

Me vero primum dulces ante omnia Musae, 
Quarum sacra fero ingenti perculsus amore, 
Accipiant, coelique vias et sidera monstrent; 
Defectus soils varies, lunaeque labores; 
Unde tremor terris; qua vi maria alta tumescant, 
Objicibus ruptis, rursusque in se ipsa residant. 1 

The mysteries which chiefly excited Virgil's curiosity 
were the movements of the heavenly bodies, the eclipses 
of the sun and moon, the cause of earthquakes, and 
the theory of the tides. Of these the second and the 
last have so long ago been explained that they no 
longer greatly engage the thoughts of others than 
astronomers, while the causes that produce earth- 
quakes are at any rate partially known. Our curiosity 
regarding the first, now concentrated upon the move- 

1 Virgil in the second book of the Georgics. 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 23 

ments of the so-called Fixed Stars, has of late years 
become keener than ever as new vistas of enquiry are 
opening themselves to view. Yet it is now that border- 
land of physics, chemistry, and metaphysics in which 
lie questions relating to the nature of matter itself 
and the persistence of force under diverse forms, which 
chiefly rouses our wonder, and makes us speculate as 
to whether light may be thrown from that side upon 
the relations of what is called Matter to what is 
called Mind. Whoever possesses even a slight ac- 
quaintance with chemistry and physics is more capable 
of following the course of investigation in this direc- 
tion than are persons altogether without scientific 
training ; and these problems are no less fitted to touch 
a susceptible imagination than were those which Virgil 
vainly sought to comprehend. 

In these ways natural science may appeal even to 
those whose daily course of life debars them from 
continuing to study it; and this is one of the reasons 
which suggests that some knowledge at least of the 
method and the fundamental conceptions of science, 
mathematical and physical, is a necessary part of a 
liberal education. 

What we call natural history (i.e. geology, botany, 
and zoology) stands on a somewhat different footing. 
No pursuits give more pleasure, or a purer kind of 
pleasure, than that given by these forms of enquiry. 
They take us into open-air nature, they make us fa- 
miliar with her, and they generally involve active exer- 



24 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tion of body as well as mind. The only drawback is 
that it is difficult for the dwellers in those vast cities, 
which have unfortunately grown up during the last 
hundred years, to enjoy these pursuits, except for a 
few holiday weeks in summer. 

If, however, we revert to the question of how much 
science can do, in the case of those whose occupa- 
tions forbid them to prosecute systematic scientific 
study, for the enrichment and refinement of that inner 
life whereof I have spoken, we shall find that the range 
of its influence is limited. It is only in certain aspects 
that it appeals to the imagination, nor does every man's 
imagination respond. To the emotions, other than 
those of wonder and admiration, it does not directly 
appeal. It is remote from the hopes, the fears, the 
needs, the aspirations of human beings. While you are 
at work on the hydrocarbons in the college laboratory, 
your curiosity and interest are roused by the remark- 
able phenomena they present. But they do not help 
you to order your life and conversation aright. Euclid's 
geometry is interesting as a model of exact deductive 
reasoning. One remembers it with pleasure. A man 
who has some leisure and some talent in this direction 
may all through his life enjoy the effort of solving mathe- 
matical problems. But has any one at a supreme mo- 
ment of some moral struggle ever been able to find help 
and stimulus in the thought that the square described 
upon the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is equal 
to the squares described on the two other sides thereof ? 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 25 

By far the larger part of the life of everyone of us 
as a being who thinks and feels is that part which puts 
him in contact with other human beings, either with the 
lives of those whom he meets or with the thoughts and 
deeds of those who in time past have done memorable 
acts, or have left written words round which his own 
mind can play. Man himself "the little God of the 
world " as Mephistopheles calls him 1 is the principal 
thing on this globe as we know it, and that which ex- 
plains him has after all the deepest interest for us. 

Whatever be anyone's occupation, he spends most 
of his working hours in the company of his fellow-men. 
They may not delight him, as they did not delight 
Hamlet, or they may delight him, as they surely must 
have delighted Shakespeare. But whether they delight 
him or not, they are an inexhaustible field of study ; and 
the study becomes more interesting when we compare the 
persons whom we meet and observe with the figures that 
stand out in the works of those masters of fiction who 
have known how to make human nature as true in tale 
or drama as it is in fact. So is it, too, with those whose 
words and deeds have come down to us from the past. 
When one has gazed upon the portraits of famous men 
in the long and stately gallery of history, one can view 
with a more sympathetic or more humorous eye the 
endless picture-show that moves before his vision in the 
present. 

Accordingly, when we turn from thinking of our 
1 In the Prologue to Goethe's Fattst. 



26 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

active life in the world to the inner or personal life, 
it is the human subjects which are best fitted to nourish 
it and illumine it. Under the human subjects I include 
history, philosophy, and imaginative literature. His- 
tory (of which biography is a part) covers all that 
man has thought and felt and said and planned and 
achieved. It is the best mirror of human nature, 
for it describes things in the concrete, human nature 
not as we fancy it but as it is. It reveals to us 
not only what has been, but how that which is has 
come to be what it is. It helps to explain to us our 
own generation as well as those that have gone be- 
fore. Rightly understood, it does this better than 
all the dissertations and exhortations, plenius et 
mdius Chrysippo et Crantore, perhaps better even 
than the sermons. That there are many doubtful 
questions in history does not materially reduce its 
value. The trained historian smiles at those who 
say that history is false because some things are and 
some may even always remain uncertain ; though no 
one will be and ought to be more severe toward those 
who recklessly neglect or wilfully pervert the facts 
so far as ascertainable. 

Psychology and ethics, though they are more and 
more seeking, like history, to follow scientific methods, 
approach the study of human nature in a more abstract 
and general way than history does. They have the 
great interest, of appealing directly to individual 
consciousness, and whoever has formed a taste for them 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 27 

will find that he has an infinite field open for observ- 
ing the phenomena which he himself and those around 
him present. He may even experiment on them, but 
such experiments, unless carefully conducted, may be 
as dangerous as those which chemists euphemistically 
describe as attended by a sudden and rapid evolution 
of sound, light, and heat. 

Of literature, as apart from history and philosophy, 
there are many branches, but that branch which I seek 
to dwell upon for our present purpose is poetry and the 
imaginative treatment, whether in verse or hi prose, 
of human themes. Epic and dramatic poems present 
pictures of life as the highest constructive minds have 
seen it. Reflective and lyric poems are the finest 
expression that has been found for human emotion. 
In their several ways they give voice to what in our 
clearest moments of vision or at our highest moments 
of exaltation, we ordinary mortals are able dimly 
to feel but faintly or feebly to express. In this 
way they both instruct us and stimulate us more than 
anything else can do; and they also give a rare and 
delicate pleasure by the perfection of their form. In 
urging on you what universities may do to implant a 
love of literature which shall last through life, let me 
lay especial stress upon the literature of periods remote 
from our own. The narratives and the poetry of prim- 
itive peoples such as the ancient Hebrews, and the 
ancient Greeks, and our own far-off Teutonic and Celtic 
forefathers have the incomparable merit of presenting 



28 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

thought and passion in their simplest form. They do 
us an immense service in illuminating the annals of 
mankind as a whole, by making us feel our own identity 
with and yet also our differences from the earlier phases 
of human society. They give a sense of the growth 
and development of the human spirit which carries us 
out of our own narrow horizon, which makes all the 
movements of the world seem to be part of one great 
drama, which saves us from fancying ourselves to be 
better or wiser than those who went before, which 
ennobles life itself by the ample prospect which it 
opens. 

Most though not all of the literature I am 
speaking of can be fully enjoyed and appreciated only 
in the languages in which it was originally composed. 
These are vulgarly called "dead languages." Let no 
one be afraid of that name. No language is dead which 
perfectly conveys thoughts that are alive and are as 
full of energy now as they ever were. An idea or a 
feeling grandly expressed lives forever, and gives im- 
mortality to the words that enshrine it. 

Let me add that it is in large measure through 
literature that we have been able to enjoy the pleas- 
ures of nature and those of art. Whoever possesses 
a sense for form and color may appreciate a fine pict- 
ure without any knowledge of the technique of paint- 
ing. But he will see comparatively little in it if his 
taste has not been formed and trained by the study of 
masterpieces and if his mind has not received the cul- 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 29 

tivation which letters and history give. So a man need 
not have read the poets to be able to find delight in a 
beautiful landscape. But he will enjoy it far more if he 
knows what Thomson, Cowper, Burns, Scott, Shelley, 
Ruskin, and above all, Wordsworth, have written. 
How much have they done to increase a sense of 
the charm of nature in all who use our tongue ! 

What are the practical conclusions which I desire 
to submit to you as the result of these suggestions? 
They are two. 

The ardour with which the study of the physical 
sciences is now pursued for practical purposes must 
not make us forget that education has to do a great 
deal more than turn out a man fitted to succeed in 
business. It must also endeavour to give him a power 
of enjoying the best pleasures. The physical sciences 
do open such pleasures, but these are not so easily 
obtained, nor so well adapted to stimulate and polish 
most minds, nor so calculated to strengthen and refine 
the character, as those which can be drawn from the 
human or literary subjects. 

Secondly, in the study of such literary subjects as 
languages and history, we must beware of giving 
exclusive attention to the technicalities of grammar 
and to purely critical enquiries. There is some risk 
that in the eagerness to apply exact methods so as 
to secure accuracy and a mastery of detail, the literary 
quality of the books read and the dramatic and personal 
aspect of the events and persons studied may be too 



30 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

little regarded. Exact methods and the whole ap- 
paratus of grammatical lore have their use for the 
purposes of college training, but in after years it 
is the thoughts and style of the writers, the perma- 
nent significance or the romantic quality of the events, 
that ought to dwell in the mind. There is certainly 
in England a tendency, perhaps due to German in- 
fluences, to hold that history ought, hi order that 
it may be thoroughly scientific, to welcome dulness 
and dryness. It is said, I know not with what truth, 
that the same tendency is felt here. The ethical side 
and the romantic side may have been overdone in 
time past, but it must never be forgotten that one of 
the chief aims of history is to illustrate human nature. 
We need throughout life to have all the light thrown 
upon human nature that history and philosophy can 
throw ; to have all the help and inspiration for our own 
lives that poetry can give. Much of everyone's work 
is dull and monotonous, perhaps even depressing, and 
that escape from the dulness of many a business career 
which the strain of fierce competition or bold specula- 
tion promises is a dangerous resource. It is better to 
nurture and cherish what I have ventured to call the 
inner life. Not all can succeed ; none can escape sor- 
rows and disapointments. He who under disappoint- 
ments or sorrows has no resources within his own 
command beyond his daily round of business duties, 
nothing to which he can turn to cheer or refresh his mind, 
wants a precious spring of strength and consolation. 



UNIVERSITIES AND INTELLECTUAL PLEASURE 31 

Nowhere in the world is there so strong a desire 
among the people for a university education as here 
in America. The effects of this will no doubt be 
felt in the coming generation. Let us hope they will 
be felt not only in the completer equipment of your 
citizens for public life and their warmer zeal for civic 
progress, but also in a true perception of the essential 
elements of happiness, an enlarged capacity for enjoy- 
ing those simple pleasures which the cultivation of 
taste and imagination opens to us all. 



THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS IN 1620 

ADDRESS AT PROVINCETOWN, CAPE COD, MASSACHUSETTS, JULY, 

1907. 



THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS IN 1620 

ADDRESS AT PROVINCETOWN, CAPE COD, MASSACHUSETTS, JULY, 1907. 

FIRST let me thank you, in behalf of the Sovereign and 
the people whom I am honoured by being deputed to 
represent in the United States, for your invitation to 
join hi the celebration to-day of a great event. It is 
fitting that Old England, whence came the settlers 
whose anding at this spot you commemorate, should 
be remembered here in this oldest part of New England 
and should send you her greeting. 

These colonists were men of the right stamp to settle 
and develop a new country. England gave you of her 
best, and she gave them in a great crisis of her own fate. 

She has ever since watched the fortunes of their 
descendants, marking their growing greatness, and 
never with more pride, more sympathy, and more 
affection than she does to-day. 

Many of you may remember to have seen some- 
where on the island-girt coasts of Massachusetts or 
Maine a rainbow stretching from one isle to another, 
and seeming to make a radiant bridge from land to land. 
It is a beautiful sight, and still more beautiful when the 
rainbow is a double one. 

In this shape of a double rainbow, bridging the ocean 

35 



36 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

from England to America, there presents itself to me 
the double settlement of this continent by the men 
who founded Virginia and the men who founded 
Massachusetts. The rainbow is the symbol of hope, 
and America has been and still is to Europe the Land 
of Hope. Over this bridge of hope millions have passed 
from the Old World hither, and it is in the spirit of hope 
for the future of a land so blessed by Providence as 
yours that we of England send our hearty greetings. 

Much has been said indeed, little has been left 
unsaid in praise of the Pilgrim Fathers, for this coun- 
try is fertile in celebrations, and I cannot hope to say 
anything new about them. But every man must 
speak of a thing as it strikes him. 

I ask myself, when I think of these exiles coming to 
make their home on what was then a bleak and desert 
shore : What was it that brought them thither ? Was 
it the love of civil liberty? They loved civil liberty, 
for they had suffered from the oppression of the royal 
officers, but it was not mainly for the sake of that 
liberty that they came, nor indeed had the great struggle 
yet begun when they quitted England to spend those 
years in friendly Holland which preceded their voyage 
hither. Nor were these Pilgrims made of the same stern 
fighting stuff as the Puritans who came to another 
part of Massachusetts Bay a little later and became 
the founders of Salem and Boston. 

Was it for the love of religious liberty ? Not at any 
rate for such a general freedom of conscience as we and 



THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS IN 1620 37 

you have now long enjoyed, not for the freedom that 
means an unquestioned right to all men to speak and 
write and teach as they would. The proclamation of 
that general freedom and the rights of the individual 
conscience might not have been altogether congenial to 
either Pilgrims or Puritans. Certainly it had not yet 
been made by its noble apostle, Roger Williams, the 
founder of Rhode Island, the most original in his think- 
ing and perhaps the most lovable hi his character of all 
the founders of North American Colonies. 

What these Pilgrims did desire and what brought them 
here was the wish to worship God in the way they held to 
be the right way. It was loyalty to truth and to duty as 
they saw it that moved them to quit first their English 
homes and friends, and then their refuge in Holland, and 
face the terrors of the sea and the rigours of a winter far 
harsher than their own, in an untrodden land, where 
enemies lurked in trackless forests. 

No one expected to find gold on the shores of Massachu- 
setts Bay. No one hoped for that fountain of youth 
which Ponce de Leon had sought in Florida a century 
before. No one dreamed of the mighty State which 
was to grow out of the tiny settlement. 

Not in the thirst for gold ; not hi the passion for 
adventure ; not for the sake of dominion, but in faith 
and in duty were laid the foundations of the Colony 
and State of Massachusetts. 

Is not this what their settlement means to us now 
after three hundred years? Faith and duty, when 



38 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

mated to courage (for without courage they avail little) 
are the most solid basis on which the greatness of a 
nation can rest. The strength of a State lies in the 
characters of its citizens. 

It is a far cry from Massachusetts to Italy, but when 
I think of these forefathers of yours, and here I think 
of the Puritans as well as the Pilgrims, and of the men 
of Connecticut and Rhode Island as well as the men of 
Massachusetts, men of plain, stern lives, of high pur- 
poses and steadfast wills, I am reminded of the famous 
line in which the great Roman poet says that it was on 
the austere simplicity of her olden days and the strong 
men she reared that the might of Rome was founded. 

Moribus antiquis stat res Romana virisque. 

Such men were your Puritan makers of New England. 
They were hewn from the same rock as those soldiers 
of Cromwell, some of whom were doubtless their kins- 
folk, before whom every enemy went down, and to 
whom was fitly applied that verse from the Hebrew 
Psalm : "Let the praises of God be in their mouths and 
a two-edged sword in their hands." 

They were men of a bold and independent spirit, but 
they knew the value of law, and these Pilgrims of A. D. 
1620, coming into a region for which no government 
had yet been provided, bound themselves to one another 
by a solemn compact signed in the cabin of their ship ; 
constituting themselves "a civill body politick" with 
power to "enacte just and equall lawes," to which they 



THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS IN 1620 39 

promised all due submission and obedience, thereafter 
choosing one of themselves to be their Governor for 
the year ensuing. 

Many generations have come and gone since the 
November days when the little Mayflower lay rocking 
in yonder bay, with the Pilgrim mothers and sisters look- 
ing out wistfully over the cold, gray waters, in those days 
silent and lonely, and with the children, cooped up for 
many a weary week, asking when, at last, they would 
be put on shore. 

Many things have come to pass, both in England and 
here, which those grave, grim ancestors of yours might 
disapprove, good and necessary as you and we may 
think them. But one thing remains as true now as it 
was then. 

The fearless man who loves truth and obeys duty 
is the man who prevails and whose work endures. 
The State which has such men, and to which such men 
are glad to render devoted service in war as in peace, 
grows to be the great State. Those men bequeathed 
to you traditions and the memory of high thoughts 
and brave deeds which have been helpful to you ever 
since hi many an hour of need, and will be helpful to 
you while your Republic stands. Many new elements 
have entered into the American people, and much of the 
blood of the New England of to-day comes from other 
than old English sources. But there is an inheritance 
of the spirit as well as of the blood, and the type 
survives because it has become a part of the character 



40 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

which each generation transmits to those who come 
after. So may the type of the resolute, God-fearing 
men who laid the foundations of this Commonwealth 
abide with you for ages to come. 

You are setting the corner-stone of a Tower which, 
looking far out over the waves of the Atlantic, shall com- 
memorate those who laid the foundations of the Com- 
monwealth of Massachusetts, an event worthy of ever- 
lasting memory. Yet there is a sense in which we may 
deem that no monument piled high in stone is needed. 

It was said by a famous statesman of antiquity that 
" the whole earth is the tomb of illustrious men." So the 
wide land which the descendants of these settlers have 
covered with flourishing cities and in which they them- 
selves planted the first seeds of civil and ecclesiastical 
government is itself their most enduring monument. 

In their darkest days one wrote to them from Eng- 
land : "Let it not be grievous unto you that you have 
been instruments to break the ice for others. The 
honour shall be yours to the world's end." That 
honour has been theirs and will be theirs. 

From Cape Cod here close beside you to Cape Flat- 
tery on the far-off shores of the Pacific, corn-fields and 
mines, railroads, and populous cities, State Houses 
where legislatures meet, and courts where justice is 
dispensed, all bear witness to the men who here began 
the work of civilizing a continent and establishing in 
it a government rooted from the first, and rooted deep, 
in the principles of liberty. 



THE INFLUENCE OF NATIONAL CHARACTER 
AND HISTORICAL ENVIRONMENT ON THE 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION AT ITS 
ANNUAL MEETING IN PORTLAND, MAINE, AUGUST, 1907. 



THE INFLUENCE OF NATIONAL CHARACTER 
AND HISTORICAL ENVIRONMENT ON THE 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION AT ITS 
ANNUAL MEETING IN PORTLAND, MAINE, AUGUST, 1907. 

NOT long. ago I had occasion to read an opinion ren- 
dered on a point of law by an eminent legal practitioner 
in a Spanish-American country. The point itself was 
one which might have arisen equally well in the United 
States or in England. But the way of approaching it 
and dealing with it, the turn of thought and the forms 
of expression, were curiously unlike those which one 
would have found in anyone trained in the Common 
Law whether in the United States or in England. This 
unlikeness pointed to some inherent difference in the 
way of looking at and handling legal questions. Many 
of you have doubtless had a similar experience, and 
have been similarly led to ask what is at the bottom of 
this difference between the legal ideas and legal methods 
of ourselves whose minds have been formed by the 
study of the Common Law and the ideas and methods 
of the lawyers who belong to the European continent 
or to South and Central American States. French, 
German, Italian, Spanish lawyers are all more like one 

43 



44 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

another than any of these are to Englishmen or Ameri- 
cans. 

The causes of this difference lie far back in the 
past. It would have been discernible in the 
seventeenth century, and might indeed have 
been even more marked then than it is now. Two 
hundred years ago the law of England had already 
acquired a distinctive quality, and that quality has 
remained distinctive until now, both here and in Old 
England, although the substantive provisions of the 
law have been changed in many respects by the eco- 
nomic and social progress which the two branches of the 
race have made, and by the new conditions under 
which those branches live. We may still with truth 
speak of the Common Law as being the common posses- 
sion of the United States and of England, because that 
spirit, those tendencies, those mental habits which 
belonged to the English stock when still undivided 
have been preserved. The causes that produced them 
belong to a period long anterior to 1776, when the an- 
cestors of Marshall, Kent, Story, Taney, Webster, 
Curtis, were living in English villages side by side with 
those of Coke, Hale, Holt, Hardwicke, Blackstone, 
Eldon, and the other sages who adorn the English roll 
of legal fame. These causes were indeed at work far 
back in the Middle Ages. Just as the character of an 
individual man is in its essence formed before he 
attains manhood, though the circumstances of his life 
modify it, giving prominence to some parts of it and 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 45 

leaving others undeveloped, so in those early centuries 
were formed that set of ideas and that type of mind 
which took shape in the provisions and the procedure 
of the old law of England. The substance of these pro- 
visions was partly general, that is, such as must exist in 
every organized and civilized society, partly special, 
such as the particular conditions of the country and 
the time needed. The form was due to the lawyers, 
whether judges, writers, or practitioners. Now the 
form has greatly affected the substance, and has proved 
hardly less permanent. When we study the growth of 
the Common Law we must think not only of the rules 
of inheritance, the doctrine of consideration for a 
contract, the conception of felony, the definition of 
manor; we must think also of the forms of actions, 
of the jury, of the authority of decided cases. All 
these were already well settled before the first English 
colonist set foot on the American continent. They 
had become part of the life and legal consciousness of 
the nation. 

What would an observer who had studied legal his- 
tory in general select as the distinguishing qualities, the 
peculiar and characteristic notes of the Common Law ? 

First, its firm grasp of the rights of the individual 
citizen. He is conceived of, he is dealt with, as a centre 
of force, an active atom, whirling about among other 
atoms, a person in whom there inhere certain powers 
and capacities, which he is entitled to assert and make 
effective, not only against other citizens, but against 



46 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

all other citizens taken together; that is, as against 
the state itself and its visible embodiment or organ, the 
executive government. 

Secondly, its recognition of the state and the execu- 
tive as clothed with the authority of the whole com- 
munity, as being an effective power, entitled to require 
and compel the obedience of the individual wherever 
and whenever it does not trespass on the rights which 
are legally secured to him. To be effective, law must 
have not only physical force behind it, but also the 
principle of legitimate authority, the sense in every 
citizen that his individual free will has its limits, and 
can be exerted only within the sphere allotted to it. 
Liberty is, in a civilized community, the child of law. 
It is not his own pleasure, but the fact that the com- 
munity has recognized a certain sphere of unchecked 
action as belonging to him, within which he can do 
as he pleases, that secures the citizen in his rights. 
Outside that sphere he must not only obey, but 
cooperate with the executive. It is his duty to aid 
in preventing a crime, in suppressing disorder, in 
arresting an offender. A sheriff exercising his functions 
can call on all persons present to support him, and 
they are bound to support him, a wholesome and, if 
you like, a truly democratic doctrine. The law 
is the people's law, not only in its origin, but also for 
the purpose of its enforcement. 

These two principles go together. The one is a 
safeguard against Tyranny, i.e. the absolute and capri- 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 47 

cious will of the governing power, the other against 
Anarchy, i.e. that unrestrained and unlimited exercise 
of the will of each and every citizen which must result 
in collision, disorder, and the triumph of mere force. 

It may be suggested that these two principles are not 
peculiar to the Common Law, because no law could grow 
up, and no state could prosper, without both of them. 
That is true. But there have been systems of law in 
which sometimes the one, sometimes the other, prin- 
ciple was imperfectly developed, and (so to speak) 
overweighted by the other. The former principle es- 
pecially (viz. the recognition of the rights of the citi- 
zen) has often been quite too weak to secure due pro- 
tectiorf to the individual man. It is the clearness 
with which both have been recognized, the fulness with 
which both have been developed, in the mediaeval and 
post-mediaeval English law that constitute its highest 
merit. 

From the equal recognition of these two principles 
there follows a third characteristic. If principles 
apparently antagonistic are to be reconciled, there 
must be a precise delimitation of their respective bounds 
and limits. The law must be definite and exact. 
Now precision, defmiteness, exactitude are features 
of the Common Law so conspicuous that the unlearned 
laity sometimes think they have been developed to an 
inordinate degree. They have made the law not only 
very minute, but very technical. But of this anon. 

With the love of precision there naturally goes a love 



48 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of certainty and fixity. The spirit of the Common Law 
is a conservative spirit, which stands upon what exists, 
distrusting change, and refusing change until change 
has become inevitable. "Stare super antiquas mas:" 
"Nolumus leges Anglice mutari" (the words of the 
barons at the council of Merton in Henry the Third's 
day) : "It is better that the law should be certain than 
that the law should be just," these were favourite dicta 
among the lawyers of the old school in England. 

The respect for what has been settled, and the desire 
that what has been settled should be definite hi its 
terms, import a deference to precedent. No legal 
system, not even the Mussulman law, grounded on 
Koranic interpretation and traditions, has ever gone 
so far in obedience to what was ruled in the past as the 
Common Law does in basing itself on cases judicially 
determined and recorded. 

Judicial decisions are given, legal precedents are 
made, as events bring them. There is no order among 
them except the chronological. Thus a law constructed 
out of them is necessarily wanting in symmetry. The 
Common Law is admittedly unsymmetrical. Some 
might call it, as a whole, confused, however exact may 
be the propositions that compose it. There are general 
principles running through it, but these are often hard 
to follow, so numerous are the exceptions. There are 
inconsistencies in it, where decisions apparently con- 
flicting have been given by different authorities at dif- 
ferent times. There are gaps in it, where no decision 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 49 

has happened to cover a particular set of circumstances. 
Thus there has been formed a tendency among lawyers 
to rate principles, or, let us say, philosophical and logical 
views of the law, very low compared with any positive 
declaration made by a court. The maxim, "An ounce 
of precedent is worth a pound of principle," still ex- 
presses the attitude of the profession hi England, and 
very possibly here also. 

With the love of certainty and definiteness there 
goes a respect for the forms of legal proceedings and 
for the precise verbal expression given to rules. This 
is a quality which belongs to most legal systems in their 
earlier stages. It was very highly developed in the 
early days of Rome and the early days of Iceland. In 
the Common Law it held its ground with great per- 
tinacity till quite recently, both in England and here ; 
nor am I sure that it is not now strong in some of your 
states, possibly stronger than in the England of to-day, 
hi which, especially since the sweeping changes made 
by the Judicature Act of 1873, the old distinctions 
between forms of actions are being forgotten. 

You may think that among the features that char- 
acterize our Common Law I ought to name the love of 
justice and also the fondness for subtle distinctions. I 
do not, however, dwell on the latter of these, because it 
belongs to all legal systems that reach a certain point of 
development, and is even more evident in some others 
than in our own. The robust common sense which 
is inherent in the Common Law seldom encouraged 



50 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

fine distinctions to go beyond a certain point. As for 
the love of justice, it belongs to mankind generally, 
and to all systems of law. Such differences as may be 
noted between different peoples consist not in the reality 
of the wish to give every man his due, suum cuique 
tribuere, but in the self-control which prevents emo- 
tional impulses from overriding justice, in the practical 
good sense which perceives that to allow the forms of 
law to be neglected or unusually harsh treatment to 
be inflicted where a cause or a person happens to be 
unpopular, is really to injure the community by im- 
pairing the respect for law itself and the confidence in 
its administration. Englishmen and Americans may 
claim that although, like others, they have sometimes 
lapsed from the right path, they have, on the whole, 
restrained their passions from trampling upon justice, 
and upon the regular methods of securing justice, better 
than most nations have done. 

The foregoing characteristics of our Common Law 
are submitted for your consideration, not as being the 
only ones which belong to it, for others might be added, 
but as being characteristics so broad and salient as to 
make it comparatively easy to discuss them and to 
endeavour to account for them. Some are found in all 
systems that have reached a high level of scientific 
development, being indeed qualities without which no 
system could be deemed excellent. Only one other 
system, the Roman, possesses them in so large a meas- 
ure as to deserve comparison. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 51 

To what are we to ascribe these features distinctive 
of the Common Law? The in-dwelling qualities of 
the race of men who built it up must have been a prin- 
cipal and indeed the primary cause. The mind and 
character of a people are indeed more exactly and ade- 
quately expressed in and through its law and institutions 
than they are through its literature or its art. For 
books and paintings are the work of individual men, 
many of whom may have been greatly influenced by 
foreign ideas or foreign models ; and some of whom, 
powerful enough to influence their successors, may not 
have been typical representatives of the national genius. 
But laws are the work of the nation as a whole, framed 
indeed by the ruling class, and shaped in their details 
by a professional class, but to a large extent created 
by other classes also, because (except in those few cases 
where a conqueror imposes his own law on the van- 
quished) the rules which govern the relations of the 
ordinary citizen must be such as suit and express the 
wishes of the ordinary citizen, being in harmony with 
his feelings and fitted to meet the needs of his daily 
life. They are the offspring of custom, and custom is 
the child of the people. Thus not only the constructive 
intellect of the educated and professional class but the 
half-conscious thought and sentiment of the average 
man go to the making and moulding of the law. It is 
the outcome of what German philosophers call the 
legal mind (Rechtsbewusstsein, or Legal Consciousness) 
of a nation. 



52 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

But law is the product not of one or two generations, 
but of many. National character is always insensibly 
changing, and changing more rapidly the more ad- 
vanced in civilization the nation becomes, the greater 
the vicissitudes in its fortunes, and the more constant 
or intimate its intercourse with other nations. Hence 
institutions become the expression of historical in- 
fluences as well as of those original gifts and 
tendencies of a race or a people which we observe 
when it emerges from prehistoric darkness. Time and 
circumstances cooperate in the work. Law is the 
result of the events which mould a nation as well as of 
the mental and moral qualities with which the nation 
started on its career. These two elements are so mixed 
and blent in their working that it is hard to describe 
them separately. Nevertheless let us try. Let us 
begin by a glance at the inborn talents and temper of 
the English people, and then see how the course of 
history trained their powers and guided their action. 

All the Teutons are strong, resolute, even wilful; 
and the Low Germans and Northmen were the most 
active and forceful branches of the Teutonic stock. 
Every man knew his rights and was ready to assert 
his rights by sword and axe. Not only so, he was 
ready, where society had become advanced enough for 
courts to grow up, to assert his rights by legal process 
also. Read the Icelandic Sagas, in which records of 
killings and of lawsuits are mingled in about equal 
proportion, if you wish to realize how keen was the 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 53 

sense each freeman had of his own claims, and how reso- 
lute he was in enforcing them. Never was there a 
people more fond of legal strife than were the Nor- 
wegians and Danes, who spread themselves over East- 
ern Britain in the ninth and tenth centuries, or than 
their brethren, whom Rolf Ganger led to the conquest 
of the northern coast of France in the ninth century. 
The Norman peasant is proverbial to-day in France 
for his litigiousness. 

In this self-assertiveness, however, there is no dis- 
regard of duly constituted authority. The primitive 
Teuton had his Folk Mot in England, his Thing in Nor- 
way and Iceland. He was loyal to his chief or king. 
He felt his duty to the community wherein he lived. 
He did not always obey the law, but he respected the 
law, and felt the need of its enforcement. 

It belongs to a strong race to have the power of self- 
control. Our forefathers were fierce and passionate, 
like other half-civilized peoples, but they had this power, 
and they restrained themselves from overriding the 
process of law and letting passion work injustice many 
a time when men of other races, Greeks, or Slavs, or 
Celts, would have yielded to their impulses. So too 
they had a latent solidity and steadiness which indis- 
posed them to frequent or fitful change. Compared 
with their Slavonic neighbours to the east and their 
Celtic neighbours to the west, races at least as intel- 
lectually quick and intellectually fertile, the Teutons 
have always been of a conservative temper. This may 



54 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

be so we like to think a mark of good sense and 
patience, or it may be an attribute of dogged and slowly 
moving minds. Anyhow, there it is, and (as already 
remarked) it is, for the purposes of law-building, a 
merit of the first magnitude. 

Further, the mediaeval English mind was of a practi- 
cal rather than of a speculative type. It had plenty 
of acumen, plenty of logical vigour. But it did not run 
to the spinning of theories or the trying of experiments. 
This has been characteristic more or less of the English 
and the American mind, and, I may add, of the Low 
German or Dutch mind, ever since, as compared with 
the Scotch mind and with that of our brethren the 
High Germans of the European Continent. For those 
who were destined to create a great and complex legal 
system, it was an excellent quality. Speaking to an 
American audience, no one would venture to disparage 
ingenuity. The jurist needs it daily. But the jurist 
who is making the law needs caution and practical 
judgment even more ; and with all your ingenuity, it 
has never been your way either to run ahead of actual 
needs or to pull up the plant to see whether the roots 
are sprouting. 

Here, then, we have noted five characteristics of 
those to whom we owe the Common Law. They were 
strong men and pugnacious men; they respected au- 
thority ; they could at need control their impulses ; 
they were not given to change ; they were not fertile 
in theory or invention. With these qualities they 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 55 

started on the work of making law. How did the 
conditions of England from the twelfth to the eigh- 
teenth century affect them, and so guide their action 
as to bring out in the fulness of tune the legal product 
we have inherited, a fruit very different from that 
which ripened under the sun of Germany or France ? 

The English king in the Middle Ages was strong, 
stronger than the kings of France or Castile or Aragon. 
He was from the days of Henry II onwards effective 
master (except for brief intervals) of the whole realm. 
He was able to make his executive authority feared 
even if it was sometimes disobeyed. His writ ran 
everywhere. His judges travelling through the country 
brought the law to the sight of all men. 

His aim, and that of his judges, was during the thir- 
teenth and fourteenth centuries to build up one law, 
instead of the variety of the diverse customs such as 
had grown up in Continental Europe. Thus he and 
they must needs strive to make the law clear and cer- 
tain. Such it became. Here and there, as in Kent and 
in some old boroughs, local land customs survived, yet 
not enough to mar the unity and definiteness of the 
law as a whole. 

From good motives as well as bad ones, the king was 
tempted to stretch his authority, and make himself 
almost a despot. He was so strong over against the 
barons that they were obliged from time to time to ally 
themselves with the church usually their antagonist 
and with the middle class of small landholders and 



56 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

burghers. This alliance was in the interests of freedom 
and of a limitation of royal power. To it we owe 
Magna Charta, and the long line of restrictions there- 
after imposed on arbitrary government. Now Magna 
Charta is the declaration of one generally binding law. 
It enounces and consecrates, and is itself, LEX TERRAE, 
the law of the whole land, and of all persons therein. 
It is for us of the English stock the parent of all in- 
struments denning the relation of citizen and sovereign, 
be the sovereign a king or the people. It is the an- 
cestor of your own federal constitution, as well as of the 
"Bill of Rights" provisions of all State constitutions. 
Just as the barons and the people were obliged to 
base themselves upon the solemnly made engagements 
of the Crown as the evidence of their immunities, so 
the Crown, acting through its judges, not being strong 
enough to make its own policy or view of what was 
right prevail as a mere exercise of the sovereign's own 
will, and desiring to have some positive authority to 
set against the texts quoted from imperial or papal 
law by the civilians or the canonists, was forced to rely 
upon acts previously done, and decisions previously 
delivered, and to found the law upon them. Thus both 
parties were led to appeal to and lay stress upon prece- 
dents. The rights which the law enforced were, as 
usually happens in early times, much involved with 
the procedure for enforcing them; and the desire to 
secure uniformity of procedure in the king's courts led 
to the constant citation of judgments delivered on 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 57 

previous occasions. Under these conditions, and 
favoured by them, there grew up that habit of record- 
ing and following decided cases which is so eminently 
and indeed uniquely characteristic of the Common Law. 

The balance of forces in English mediaeval society 
appeared most clearly in the relations of lord and vassal. 
Each had unquestionable rights, and these rights were 
apt to come into conflict. The adjustment of conflict- 
ing claims gave constant occupation to the lawyers and 
the judges, and, while forming habits of exact thought 
and precise statement, it created a great mass of techni- 
cal learning. The older English land law was indeed 
as intricate and elaborately artificial a body of rules 
as the world has ever seen. Though modified in some 
important points, it lasted with us until less than a cen- 
tury ago, when it began to be so cut about by amending 
statutes as to lose its ancient logical cohesion. For 
some reason or in some way which is not clear to most 
of us, many of its technical doctrines were held not 
applicable to land in North America, so you have es- 
caped most of the complications it handed down to us. 
But the process which produced it left a deep impress 
on the law generally. Some of the faults, some also 
of the merits, of the Anglo-American way of handling 
legal questions are due to the ancient land rights and 
the procedure followed in trying the issues that arose 
under them. 

English freedom, in the particular legal form it took, 
sprang out of feudal conditions. In reality, it was 



58 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

older than feudality, and had lost some of its simple 
Teutonic breadth when overgrown by feudal notions. 
But the structure of parliament and the right of parlia- 
ment alone to impose taxes sprang out of the relation 
of the king (as feudal lord) to his tenants, which is in 
a certain sense a private relation as well as a political 
one. It is hardly too much to say that what we call 
the public or constitutional law of England is a part 
of, as it has certainly grown out of, the private law. 
Some of our fundamental constitutional principles 
have been established by decisions given in private 
suits. And although you in America can draw a 
sharper line between public and private law than can 
be drawn in England, because you have a written or 
rigid constitution, and we have, strictly speaking, no 
constitution at all, still the old character of the Common 
Law remains plainly visible in the fact that many of 
the most important questions that have arisen on the 
construction of your federal and state constitutions 
have arisen in suits between private parties, where 
the primary issue before the court was one in which 
the rights of those parties had to be determined. 

I have referred to exactitude of thought and expres- 
sion as one of the excellencies which we justly admire 
in the sages of the Common Law and particularly in 
the deliverances of the judges. That exactitude has 
become a feature of all our legal thinking and legal 
writing, and has in particular made us separate more 
clearly than the lawyers of most other nations do, 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 59 

considerations strictly legal from those which belong 
to the sphere of morality or sentiment. We owe this in 
no small measure to the old system of pleading which, 
slowly matured and refined to an excessive point 
of technicality, gave to the intellects of many genera- 
tions of lawyers a very sharp edge. That system had 
the great merit of impressing upon them the need for 
distinguishing issues of law from issues of fact. The 
first lesson a student learns is to consider in any given 
case whether he ought to plead or to demur. It is a 
lesson of value to all of us in our daily life. Half the 
confusions of thought in the world, certainly not ex- 
cepting the world of political discussion, arise because 
men have not learnt to ask themselves whether the 
issue is one of fact or of principle. "Do I deny the 
facts or do I dispute the inference ? Ought I to plead 
or to demur?" 

It is a remarkable fact that although the Common 
Law came into existence at a time when personal slav- 
ery was not extinct in England, and had reached an 
advanced state of development before praedial slavery 
or villenage had died out, the existence of slavery in 
the North American colonies had nothing to do with 
either English institution, but arose quite independently 
in colonial days. Though villenage existed at Common 
Law, and is said to have lasted into the seventeenth 
century, personal slavery does not, I think, stand re- 
corded and recognized in any English Common Law book 
of authority or in any decided case, and I suppose that 



60 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the incidents of negro slavery in the colonies, doubtless 
practically assumed before anyone thought of specific 
legal sanction, were either parts of the general Common 
Law of personal property or else rested upon statutes 
of those colonies in which slavery existed. It may be 
observed in passing that although one might think 
that the recognition of the rights of man as man (i.e. 
as a human being) would be clearest and fullest in a 
country where there were no slaves, this may not in 
fact have been the case. Where some men are free 
and others are slaves, the status of freedom may have 
been conceived more sharply as a positive status, and 
the rights belonging to the individual as a freeman 
may have stood out more strongly, because he is le- 
gally exempt from treatment to which the slave is 
liable. As a freeman, he is prima facie the equal, as a 
holder of private civil rights, of all other free men, even 
though the latter may belong to a specially privileged 
caste. The history of the Roman law of persons lends 
colour to this view. 

On no feature of the Common Law did your ancestors 
lay more stress than on the jury, and the right of every 
citizen to be tried by his peers. This right had been 
a bulwark of English freedom, and was deemed in the 
eighteenth century to be essential thereto. Yet it 
deserves to be noticed that the jury was an institution 
which, in the form familiar to us, arose almost by acci- 
dent. The legal genius, or instinct, of the mediaeval 
English may, however, be credited with the use they 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 61 

made of this accident. Darwin has shown how a 
variation from a type which in its origin is accidental, 
that is to say, due to some cause operative in an in- 
dividual organism which is beyond our power of en- 
quiry (do we quite know what we mean when 
we talk of chance?), may become the source of a new 
type possessing advantages which enable it to survive 
and prevail and reach a higher level of efficiency than 
the original type possessed. So it may be not too 
fanciful to suggest that where a political or legal germ 
happens to fall in a fertile soil the virtue of the soil 
enables it to spring up and become the parent of a 
flourishing progeny. Our ancestors moulded the jury 
into an instrument serviceable not only for discovering 
the truth but for securing freedom and justice, freedom 
because it was practically independent of royal power, 
justice because, although it was sometimes intimi- 
dated, and occasionally even corrupted, it was usually 
less liable to be tampered with by those malign influences 
which might poison the mind or pervert the action of a 
judge in days when public opinion was ill-informed or 
weak. We, in England, have no longer that confidence 
in the wisdom of a jury in certain classes of civil ac- 
tions which we once had, and the tendency of recent 
years has been to narrow the sphere of its employment. 
But the institution of the jury has had some notably 
beneficent results. Along with those rules of pleading 
to which I have already referred, it helped to form in 
us a keener sense of the need for separating issues of 



62 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

law from issues of fact than exists anywhere outside 
England and America, and it has trained us how to 
draw this distinction in every case we have to advise 
on or to argue. It has tended to keep judicial deliver- 
ances of the law within due limits of brevity, because 
when a judge finds himself tempted to wander off from 
a determination of legal points into the general 
merits of the case, he is reminded that the latter are 
for the jury, and that his natural human tendency to do 
what he thinks substantial justice must be restrained 
by the sense that his business is to declare the law and 
be content with advising the jury on the facts. It 
formed the practice of using, at a criminal trial, evidence 
almost exclusively oral, and thus incidentally it pre- 
vented both those secret examinations of the accused 
person and that recourse to torture which were com- 
mon in Continental Europe. It confirmed the ancient 
usage of requiring judicial proceedings to be conducted 
in public, and thus kept subject to the watchful eye of 
popular opinion. And it mitigated that harshness of 
the penal law which belongs to all comparatively rude 
societies and was not removed from the English statute 
book till within the memory of persons still living. 
When men were liable to be hanged for small thefts, 
English juries refused to convict for such offences, and 
their refusal hastened the march of legislative reform. 
The mention of penal matters suggests a word as to 
the extreme technicality of the older Common Law. 
Frequently as that technicality frustrated the doing of 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 63 

substantial justice in civil cases, it had its advantages 
in criminal proceedings. Often a prisoner who did not 
deserve a severe sentence and no doubt sometimes 
also a prisoner who did escaped on some technical 
ground. The Common Law, which had (as already 
remarked) the great merit of forbidding the use of 
torture, abominably frequent in Continental Europe 
and practised even in the free cantons of Switzerland 
till near the end of the eighteenth century, had also 
the merit of forming in the legal profession the feeling 
that an accused person ought to have a fair run for 
life or freedom. A sportsmanlike instinct grew up, 
like that which gives the hunted deer "law" or a 
fair start, or that which forbids certain tricks by 
which a game at cricket might be won. A judge who 
bullied a prisoner was condemned by professional opin- 
ion. A prosecuting counsel who overstated his case or 
betrayed a personal eagerness to convict the prisoner, 
incurred the displeasure of his brethren and was sure 
to hear of it afterwards. I have often been struck in 
our criminal courts by the self-restraint which experi- 
enced counsel impose on themselves when conducting 
a case, as well as by the care which the judge takes to 
let the prisoner have the benefit of every circumstance 
in his favour. Here one feels the tradition of the Com- 
mon Law, which insisted on protecting the individual 
against the state. How different things are in some 
parts of the European continent is known to you all. 
It is partly because this good tradition has been so well 



64 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

preserved that we have in England found that con- 
victed prisoners need comparatively few opportunities 
for raising points of law after the trial. The trial it- 
self almost always secures for them whatever justice 
requires, though of course there is a power of raising 
for subsequent argument points reserved. 1 

The mediaeval Common Law has been charged with 
one serious defect, that of lacking elasticity and the 
power of expansion. It halted at a certain point. It 
refused to deal, or I should perhaps say, its machinery 
proved incapable of dealing, with certain sets of cases, 
and left them to be taken up by the crown acting 
through the Lord Chancellor. I cannot stop to 
enquire how far this was due to an excess of con- 
servatism in our forefathers, how far to the circum- 
stances of the time, which, while circumscribing the 
action of the king through one set of machinery, left 
him free to act through another. Anyhow, the result 
was that the huge system which we call Equity grew 
up side by side with the Common Law, remained dis- 
tinct from it in England until the Judicature Act of 
1873, and I believe remains, in some states and to some 
extent, still distinct from it in the United States. In 
a broad sense, however, although, speaking technically, 
we distinguish Common Law from Equity, we may in- 
clude Equity within the term Common Law, when we 

1 In the present session of Parliament (1907) an Act has been 
passed providing for an appeal, under certain circumstances, in crim- 
inal cases. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 65 

use this latter term to distinguish the law of England 
and America from the Roman law of the European 
continent, or of Louisiana and Spanish America. 
And it must not be forgotten that not only had 
Equity become a thoroughly positive system and a 
technical system by the time when the North 
American colonies were founded, but also that it 
had been largely influenced by the same historical 
environment and had been moulded by the same 
national tendencies as had governed the growth 
of the law administered in the Common Law courts. 
How much of its own precision and certainty the older 
system had given to the younger system may be seen 
by whoever will compare English Equity with the civil 
law of most European countries in the seventeenth 
century. 

I have kept to the last the most striking of all the 
historical conditions which determined the character 
of Anglo-American law. England (or rather Britain) 
was an island. The influences which governed the 
development of law in the European mainland reached 
her in an attenuated form. The English people had 
the chance of making a new start and of creating a 
system of law for themselves, instead of merely adopting 
or adapting the Roman jurisprudence, as did, at va- 
rious times and in diverse ways, the French, the Span- 
iards, the Germans, and (ultimately and indirectly) 
nearly all modern peoples except those of English 
stock. We must not indeed exaggerate the originality 



66 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of our law. It is not as original as that of Iceland would 
probably have been, had Iceland gone on developing 
the legal customs she had formed by the middle of the 
thirteenth century. It is not original in the sense of 
owing little or nothing to foreign sources, for a great 
deal of law flowed from Roman fountains into the 
English stream. When (according to Gervase of 
Tilbury) the Lombard Vacarius taught the Roman 
law in the reign of King Stephen at Oxford 
this is among the very first traces we have of that 
famous university we cannot suppose that his hear- 
ers were confined to those who wished to practise in 
the ecclesiastical courts. In the next century we find 
Bracton, one of our earliest legal writers, copying freely 
from the Roman law books, though he frequently also 
contradicts them when English usage differed. In the 
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the ecclesiastical 
chancellors who built up the system of Equity were 
much influenced by Roman legal doctrines, drawn 
largely through canonist channels. Still the fact 
remains that the law of England was a new creation, 
not an adaptation of the law of the Empire. It has a 
character and a quality which are all its own ; and its 
free spirit and tendencies have always stood out in 
marked contrast to the despotic spirit and tendencies 
which France, Spain, and Germany inherited from the 
imperial jurisprudence. To that jurisprudence it was, 
during the Middle Ages and the centuries that followed, 
as much superior in respect for freedom and in what 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 67 

may be called a popular flavour as it was inferior in 
respect of the philosophic breadth and elegance of the 
ancient sources on which that imperial jurisprudence 
was founded. The use of the jury, the far larger 
place assigned to oral evidence, the sharper separation 
of issues of law from issues of fact, are among the 
most salient points in which its distinctive and indi- 
vidual quality appears. 

I had intended to have given you a brief sketch of 
the earlier history of the ancient Roman law for the 
sake of showing how the characteristics of that great 
rival system sprang from features in the national char- 
acter of the Romans in their Republican days, not un- 
like those which marked our ancestors. The Romans 
too had a genius for law. Less imaginative, less artistic, 
less acute in speculation, altogether less intellectually 
versatile and alert than were the Greeks, they had a 
greater capacity for building up and bringing to an al- 
most finished and certainly unsurpassed perfection a 
body of legal principles and rules. They possessed this 
capacity in respect of gifts like those of our ancestors. 
They realized clearly the rights of the individual as 
against the state. They were conservative. They had 
the power of self-control. They were filled with practi- 
cal good sense. But this great subject is too great 
to be dealt with at the end of an address, and I must 
be content with recommending it to the attention of 
those who are interested in these studies as throwing 
much light upon the general tendencies which have 



68 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

governed the growth of law. The best illustrations 
of English legal history are to be found in Roman legal 
history. 

I have so far been speaking of the Common Law as 
a product of the English intellect under certain pecul- 
iar historical conditions. But if it was a result, it was 
also a cause. It reacted powerfully upon the people 
that made it. Just as the habit of physical or mental 
exercise strengthens the body or the mind where na- 
tive energy has made exercise enjoyable, so the Common 
Law, once created, began to develop further and give 
more definite form to those very qualities of the na- 
tion whereto its own features were due. Under its in- 
fluence the national mind became more and more per- 
meated by the spirit of legality. It grew accustomed 
to resist arbitrary power, but as it did this in defence 
of prescriptive right, it did not lapse into revolutionary 
ways. Thus there was formed the idea of a govern- 
ment of limited powers, and the habit, when anyone 
claimed obedience, of requiring him to show his title 
to demand it. If it be asked why should not such a 
conception of the legal character of all authority be- 
long to, and arise in, every duly matured system of 
law, the answer is that the case of England stood alone 
in this respect, that the law came early to be recognized 
as being something more than an expression of the will 
of the monarch. It sprang partly out of the old cus- 
toms, partly (and more as time went on) from an as- 
sembly which was national, although not yet popular. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 69 

It did not descend, as in Continental Europe, from an 
ancient and foreign wisdom or authority. It was 
English. It came not from above, but from all around. 
In England, moreover, there were among the men 
who knew and practised the law not a few persons of 
independent social standing. They were largely the 
lesser landholders and the younger sons or nephews 
of some of the larger landholders, and so they formed 
a link between the nobles and the middle classes. Un- 
like the lawyers of France, those of England did not 
generally depend on the Crown, and they were ready on 
occasion to oppose it. Thus, although the people at 
large knew little of the details of the law, the spirit of 
independent legality was diffused through the nation, 
and legality was not the docile servant of power as it 
became in countries where both physical force and the 
function of making or declaring the law were in the 
hands of the executive ruler. 

How great a part the conception of the legal rights 
of the subject or citizen against the Crown or the state 
power played in English and American history, is known 
to you all, nor need I dwell on the capital impor- 
tance for the whole political system of the United 
States of that doctrine of limited powers which has 
been so admirably worked out in your constitutions, 
nor of that respect for a defined legal right which sup- 
ports their provisions. The life of every nation rests 
mainly on what may be called its fixed ideas, those 
ideas which have become axioms in the mind of every 



70 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

citizen. They are stronger than fundamental laws, 
because it is they that give to fundamental laws their 
strength. They are, as the poet says, " the hidden bases 
of the hills." Now it was mainly by the Common Law 
that these fixed and fundamental ideas were moulded, 
whereon the constitutional freedom of America, as of 
England, rests. 

One hundred and thirty-one years have now passed 
since the majestic current of the Common Law became 
divided into two streams which have ever since flowed 
in distinct channels. Water is naturally affected by 
the rock over or the soil through which it flows, but 
these two streams have hitherto preserved almost the 
same tint and almost the same flavour. Many statutes 
have been enacted in England since 1776, and many 
more enacted here, but the character of the Common 
Law remains essentially the same, and it forms the 
same mental habits in those who study and practise it. 
An American counsel in an English court, or an Eng- 
lish counsel in an American court, feels himself in a 
familiar atmosphere, and understands what is going 
on, and why it is going on, because he is to the manner 
born. You read and quote our law reports, though 
they are nowadays too largely filled by decisions on 
recent statutes; we read and quote yours, though 
embarrassed by the enormous quantity of the food (not 
all of it equally nutritious) which you annually present 
to our appetite. In nothing, perhaps, does the sub- 
stantial identity of the two branches of the old stock 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMMON LAW 71 

appear so much as in the doctrine and practice of the 
law, for the fact that many new racial elements have 
gone to the making of the American people causes in 
this sphere very little difference. It is a bond of union 
and of sympathy whose value can hardly be overrated. 
An English visitor who has himself been trained to the 
law can find few keener pleasures than that which my 
friends, Lord Justice Kennedy, Sir Kenelm Digby, Sir 
Frederick Pollock (together with your other English 
legal visitors), and I enjoy in being here to-day among 
so many eminent members of our own profession and in 
seeing how influential and how respected a place that 
profession holds, and has always held, in the United 
States. It is a bond of sympathy not least because it 
is a source of common pride. There is nothing of 
which you and we may be more justly proud than that 
our common forefathers reared this majestic fabric 
which has given shelter to so many generations of men 
and from which there have gone forth principles of 
liberty by which the whole world has profited. 

The law of a nation is not only the expression of its 
character, but a main factor in its greatness. What 
the bony skeleton is to the body, what her steel ribs 
are to a ship, that to a State is its Law, holding all 
the parts fitly joined together so that each may retain 
its proper place and- discharge its proper functions. 
The Common Law has done this for you and for us 
in such wise as to have helped to form the mind and 
habits as well of the individual citizens as of the 



72 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

whole nation. Parts of it these private citizens 
cannot understand; and when that is so they had 
better not try, but be content to seek your professional 
advice. But it is all their own. They can remould 
it if they will. Where a system of law has been made 
by the people and for the people, where it conforms to 
their sentiments and breathes their spirit, it deserves 
and receives the confidence of the people. So may it 
ever be both in America and in England. 



THE CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF 
LEGISLATION 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION, 
JANUARY, 1908. 



THE CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF 
LEGISLATION 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION, 
JANUARY, 1908. 

THE subject on which I have to address you is far re- 
moved from any of those thoughts with which the polit- 
ical and financial excitement of the moment fills the 
thoughts of the legal practitioner either in the rural 
parts of the State, or here in New York City, where 
the financial barometer rises and falls so quickly, and 
where the lawyer is often summoned to administer 
spiritual consolation to some of his clients in the part 
of the city where that barometer can best be watched. 
But it may have some interest for an audience which 
is not wholly absorbed in its professional practice, but 
has also to watch and study the machinery of legisla- 
tion as it is at work from year to year. 

The immense increase in the volume of legislation 
during the last half century is one of the salient fea- 
tures of our time. Mr. Choate has told you that more 
than five thousand statutes were passed in this country 
during the last two years. But the phenomenon is 
not confined to this country. Various causes may be 
assigned for it. It may be due to the swift changes in 
economic and social conditions which have called forth 

75 



76 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

new laws to deal with those facts. Pessimists may per- 
haps ascribe it to the spread of new evils or the increase 
of old evils which the State is always attempting by 
one expedient after another to repress. I suppose this 
is what Tacitus meant when he wrote " Corruptissima 
republica plurimce. leges" Or the optimist may tell 
us that it is an evidence of that reforming zeal which is 
resolved to use the power of the State and the law for 
extirpating ancient faults and trying to make every- 
one happier. Which of these or of other possible ex- 
planations is the true one, I will not stop to consider. 
But the fact that the output of legislation has of late 
been incomparably greater than in any previous age 
greater not only absolutely, but in proportion to the 
population of the civilized nations suggests a con- 
sideration of the forms and methods of law-making as 
a timely topic. 

In no country, moreover, is the output of statutes 
so large as in the United States, where, besides Congress, 
forty-six 1 State legislatures are busily at work turning 
out laws on all imaginable subjects, with a faith in the 
power of law to bless mankind which few historians 
or philosophers, and still fewer experienced lawyers, 
will be found to share. Nevertheless, such faith is a 
testimony to the hopefulness of your people, and no 
one can wish that any people should ever be less hopeful. 

In modern free countries, where laws are enacted 
by representative assemblies, where the economic and 
J Now (1913) forty-eight. 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 77 

social questions to be dealt with are generally similar, 
and where the masses of the people are moved, broadly 
speaking, by the same impulses, the problem of how 
to make legislation satisfactory in substance and in 
form is virtually the same problem everywhere. Ac- 
cordingly, the light which the experience of one country 
affords is pretty sure to be useful to other countries. 
These we call private acts. I will try to indicate 
some points in which the experience of methods tried 
in Britain may deserve to be studied by you. 

In the United States your enactments are all of one 
kind, be they Federal laws or State laws : all emanate 
directly from the legislature, and all are discussed and 
passed in the same way. In Great Britain we have 
found it desirable to divide enactments into three 
classes: First we have public general statutes passed 
by Parliament. Secondly, we have enactments of 
local or personal application affecting the rights of par- 
ticular areas or men, or particular business undertak- 
ings. Thirdly, we have enactments intended to be of 
temporary application, or at any rate such as to require 
amendment from time to time in order to adjust them 
to changing conditions, so that they are really rather 
in the nature of executive orders than to be classified 
among permanent laws. Orders of this executive kind 
are now made not directly by Parliament, but either by 
the Crown in the Privy Council, upon some few mat- 
ters that are still left within the ancient prerogative 
of the Crown, or else under statutory powers entrusted 



78 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

by Parliament either to the Crown in Council or to some 
administrative department. (I believe that in France, 
and in Germany also, such orders are not made by the 
supreme legislature.) There is also a larger class of 
rules or ordinances of a somewhat wider, though not 
universal, application, which being of an administrative 
nature require from time to time to be varied. Such 
rules or ordinances are, in England, now usually made 
by authorities to whom power in that behalf has been 
specially delegated by Parliament. Some, including 
those which affect the Crown colonies, are made by 
the Crown in Council. These we call Orders in Council, 
and they include a large number of ordinances made 
for the government of the Crown Colonies which do 
not possess self-government, being nearly all inhabited 
by native populations not deemed qualified for its 
exercise. Similar to these are the Rules or Regula- 
tions dealing with administrative matters which are 
issued by some of the administrative departments 
for the guidance of officials and of local authorities, 
under a power conferred in that behalf by Parliament. 
These also require to be varied from time to time, 
and are therefore not fitted to be dealt with by Par- 
liament. With these one may class the rules relating to 
legal procedure in the Courts, which are made by the 
Rules Committee, consisting of Judges of the Supreme 
Court of Judicature, and other representatives of the 
legal profession, chosen for the purpose and acting 
under a power given by statute. The advantage of 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 79 

this plan is that it enables us from time to time to 
modify our legal procedure without the necessity of re- 
ferring the matter to Parliament. 

In this way there has been built up a large body of 
what may be called subsidiary law. It has statutory 
effectiveness, because all of it has been made under 
the powers of some statute, although made not 
directly by Parliament itself, but under delegated par- 
liamentary authority. These subsidiary enactments 
are published in volumes called " Statutory Rules and 
Orders." They form a large collection quite distinct 
from that of the statutes. Thus the dimensions of 
our statute book have been kept down while the dele- 
gation of legislative power has materially reduced the 
labour of Parliament. 

Let me now return to the second class, viz., acts 
passed directly by Parliament but not of general appli- 
cation. This class includes enactments which, though 
they apply only to particular places or persons, and 
are thus not parts of the general law, such as railway 
acts, canal, gas and water, and electric lighting acts, 
acts giving specific powers to municipalities, and so 
forth. They are sharply distinguished from General 
Public acts in the method by which they are passed. 
They are brought in and read a first time by motion of 
a member in the House (either Lords or Commons) and 
upon a petition by private persons. Notices have to 
be publicly given of them some two months before the 
usual beginning of a parliamentary session in order to 



8o UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

call the attention of all persons possibly interested. 
They are advertised in the newspapers of such parts 
of the country as they affect in order that every person 
who desires to oppose them may have an opportunity 
of entering a notice of opposition and being heard upon 
it. When they are brought in they are examined by 
officials called the Examiners of Standing Orders, who 
see that they comply with the general rules which 
Parliament has prescribed, and in particular that all 
the regulations with regard to notices have been duly 
observed. When they have passed the Examiners of 
Standing Orders, being shown to have complied with all 
the rules prescribed in that behalf, they are brought 
up for second reading and usually pass that stage 
without discussion or division. 

If, however, a private bill raises some large question 
of public interest, it may be opposed upon second 
reading. For instance, if it proposes to take, for the 
purpose of building a railroad, common land over 
which a number of commoners have rights of pasture, 
and to close paths which the public are entitled to use, 
it is open to any member to give notice of opposition 
and to propose its rejection on grounds of general pol- 
icy. So again if it relates to electric power or light 
and raises the question whether electricity shall be 
supplied to a large area by a municipality or by a pri- 
vate company, as happened recently when a large in- 
dustrial corporation sought power from Parliament to 
create an enormous power establishment to supply 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 81 

electricity to every part of London, then again that 
question would be fully debated on second reading as 
being a question of public policy on which Parliament 
ought to pronounce, laying down a precedent for simi- 
lar cases likely to arise thereafter. Such cases are, 
however, uncommon, and most private bills are sent 
as a matter of course to what we call a private bill 
committee. 

This body usually consists of four members, but 
may be and, in the case of very important bills, 
often is larger. The Chairman is always a man of 
some parliamentary experience and business capacity. 
We have a panel of senior members, from which the 
Chairmen are taken, and they become by practice 
expert and skilful in dealing with these matters. 
All the members of such a committee make a dec- 
laration that they have no private interest in the 
matter dealt with by the bill, and they are required 
to deal with it in a purely judicial spirit, on the basis 
of the evidence presented and the arguments used by 
the lawyers who represent each side, just as in a 
Court of Justice. Party politics never comes into the 
matter. 

No one is permitted to address private solicitations to 
the members of the committee with a view to influence 
their decision. Even a member of the House privately 
approaching or trying to induce any member of the com- 
mittee to vote in a particular way on the bill, would be 
considered to have transgressed the rules, and be severely 



82 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

condemned by his fellow-members. In point of fact, 
the thing does not happen. These private bill commit- 
tees, whether they decide right or wrong, because they 
sometimes err like other people, are always understood 
to be impartial and honest. In that way the procedure 
gives general satisfaction. Neither is there any class of 
persons whose business it is to " lobby" and endeavour 
to persuade members to vote for or against a measure. 
The conduct of private bills is in the hands of a body 
of regular practitioners who are called parliamentary 
agents. They are often, but not always, attorneys 
at law. They are an organized body who are subject 
to discipline, bound by a code of rules, and obliged to 
observe those rules just as strictly as any other kind 
of legal practitioner. 

Under this system all our railways, and such other 
public undertakings as require statutory sanction, have 
been constructed, and have had their legal powers from 
time to time increased or varied. It has worked well 
in every respect but one. It has been costly, for where 
a private bill is hotly contested, the fees paid to agents 
and counsel sometimes mount up to huge sums. But 
it has been administered not only with honesty, but 
with seldom even a suspicion ; and it has relieved the 
two Houses of a vast mass of troublesome detail by 
leaving this work to judicial committees acting in a 
judicial way. It has, moreover, the advantage of giv- 
ing every private bill the certainty of being examined 
on its merits, and its merits only. Being outside the 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 83 

struggle for life which goes on among public bills, sel- 
dom encroaching on their time, and not having its 
time encroached on by them, and being treated in a 
different way, the pressure of public business does not 
prevent a private bill (except in the rare cases where 
a large public issue is raised) from being sent to and 
considered by a committee, and, if it pass the committee, 
being reported to the House and passed there in the 
course of one session. The committee may reject a 
bill, but cannot get rid of it quietly by omitting to 
report. Finally, it relieves members of Parliament 
from being obliged to spend time and toil in advocat- 
ing or opposing bills affecting their constituencies, a 
process in which more enmities may be incurred than 
favour gained. Having, during twenty-seven years 
spent in the House of Commons, represented two 
great industrial communities, I can bear witness to 
the enormous gain to a member in being free from 
local interests and local pressure. I never had any 
solicitation whatever to trouble me from any colleague 
in regard to any private bill. It now and then, though 
very rarely, happened that some constituent or group 
of constituents wrote to me and said, " Such and such 
a bill is pending in the House of Commons, or House 
of Lords; we are very much interested in it and should 
be glad if you could help." I had always an answer 
which was easy, and which had the further merit of 
being entirely correct and true; namely, that I was not 
permitted by the rules of the House of Commons to 



84 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

endeavour to use any influence upon any member of 
the committee which was considering that bill. The 
most I could have done would have been to tell the 
Chairman publicly, without any secrecy, that this was 
a bill of great importance, in which some of my con- 
stituents were interested, and to beg that it should 
have the fullest and most careful attention from the 
committee. But as for trying to exert any influence 
either for or against its passing, I should have broken 
our rules had I tried to do so. 

No one who has not been a member of a legislative 
body can know what a relief it is to be able to free one's 
self from any solicitations of this kind. 

I dwell upon this point in order to explain to you 
how it is the British Parliament has been able to deal 
with the great mass of local legislation imposed on it 
by the principle that special statutory authority is 
required for undertakings which involve the compul- 
sory taking of land or the creation of what is practi- 
cally a monopoly. But the relief given to Parlia- 
ment, important as it is, has been the least among the 
merits of the system used. Its great service has been 
to provide a method in which matters involving im- 
mense pecuniary interests have been for many years 
past so dealt with as to raise no suspicions of corrup- 
tion or unfair personal favour. And now, leaving 
unnoticed other details regarding these private bills, 
let me pass on to the larger question of public gen- 
eral legislation, which has most interest for you as 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 85 

lawyers though it suffers from the great amount of 
time absorbed by local and personal bills. 

The quality of statute law may be considered in 
respect : first, of its Form ; secondly, of its Substance. 

As respects Form, you, as lawyers, know that a 
statute ought to be clear, concise, consistent. Its 
meaning should be evident, should be expressed in the 
fewest possible words, should contain no clause con- 
tradicting another or anything repugnant to any other 
provision of the statute law, except of course to such 
provisions as it is expressly intended to repeal. 

To secure these merits three things are needed ; viz., 

(a) that a bill as introduced should be skilfully drafted, 

(b) that pains should be taken to see that all 
amendments made during its passage are also properly 
drafted, and (c) that the wording is carefully revised 
at the last stage and before the bill is enacted. Of 
these objects the first is in Britain pretty well secured 
by the modern practice of having all government bills 
prepared by the official draftsman, who is called the 
Parliamentary Counsel. Nearly all our important bills, 
and indeed nearly all the bills of a controversial char- 
acter that pass, are bills brought in by the government 
of the day. A private member has now, owing to the 
pressure of time, hardly any chance of passing legisla- 
tion. Therefore, you may take it that all important 
legislation is prepared, and pushed through, by the 
government. The government has an official perma- 
nent drafting staff, consisting of two or three able and 



86 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

highly trained lawyers, whose business it is to put its 
bills into the best shape. If they are not always perfect 
in form, that may not be the fault of the draftsman, be- 
cause the best scientific shape is not necessarily the 
shape in which it is most easy to pass a bill through 
Parliament. The form which is given to a bill may 
make some difference to the amount of opposition it 
will excite, and a better drafted measure may either 
rouse more antagonism or give greater opportunities for 
attack than a less neatly or elegantly drafted one would 
encounter, and also to afford the fewest opportunities for 
taking divisions in committees. It is one of the rules 
of our Parliament that every clause has to be separately 
put to the vote in committee; therefore, the more 
clauses, the more divisions, and the more divisions, 
the more expenditure of time. Hence, if you put a 
great deal of matter into one clause, subdividing it 
into subsections, and parts of subsections, instead of 
letting each part of the matter to be enacted have a 
clause to itself, you have fewer debates on each clause 
as a whole and fewer divisions. That may explain 
peculiarities in the structure of recent British acts 
which would otherwise excite surprise. It is hardly 
possible that legislation, passed by a popular assembly, 
should attain to that high standard of scientific per- 
fection which could be obtained at Rome, where a 
consul or a tribune put to the vote of the Assembly 
a carefully prepared measure which could not be 
amended, but had to be accepted or rejected as a 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 87 

whole. Neither could the work be so neatly done as 
it was under an absolute monarch like the Roman 
Emperor. 

Our statute law has been greatly improved in 
form since the office of Parliamentary draftsman was 
created. He has sometimes functions to discharge that 
require high skill and judgment. It often happens 
that the minister who is preparing a measure has 
not completely thought out all its provisions, and 
may not, even if he be himself a lawyer, have in 
his mind all the relations which the bill he de- 
sires to enact will bear to various branches of a vast 
and complicated system of law. The business of the 
Parliamentary draftsman is not only to take the ideas 
and plans of the minister and put them into the clearest 
and most concise form, but also to warn the minister 
of all the consequences his proposals will have upon 
every part of the system, and to help him to consider 
what is the best way in which the amendment in the 
law it is sought to effect can be secured and expressed. 
The Parliamentary draftsman has, of course, nothing 
to do with questions of governmental policy and stands 
entirely apart from party politics. He must serve every 
administration with equal zeal and loyalty. But if he 
personally is a man of real ability, who understands 
public questions, has mastered the particular subject 
he is asked to deal with, perceives its difficulties and 
sees how they can be met, he may give the most valu- 
able assistance to the minister. All our ministers 



88 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

gladly acknowledged what they owed to the late Sir 
Henry Jenkyns, who long filled the post with consum- 
mate ability, though few persons outside the narrow 
circle of the higher civil service had ever heard his 
name. 

As respects amendments in committee and final 
revision, our English procedure is not satisfactory. 
There ought to be some means of correcting, before a 
measure finally passes, those inelegancies, redundancies, 
and ambiguities which the process of amending in com- 
mittee usually causes. But as Parliament has, so far, 
refused to allow any authority outside itself to alter 
the wording in the smallest point, all that can be 
done is to use the last stage of the bill to cure such 
blemishes as can be discovered. Doubtless the same 
difficulties arise here. I am not fully informed as to 
how they are dealt with, but have learnt with great 
interest of the efforts recently made in Wisconsin, under 
the zealous initiative of Mr. McCarthy, and in New 
York State also, to supply by a bureau of legislation 
assistance to members of the legislature in the prepara- 
tion of their bills. The value of this plan seems to have 
been fully recognized in both States, and the example 
has told upon five other States, where similar arrange- 
ments are now made by State authority for such help. 
I venture hope that Congress will see its way to the 
creation of some such office for drafting bills, so as to 
provide ampler data for members and render to them 
such legal help as they may require. 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 89 

Now let us come to the Substance of legislation, and 
start from two propositions which everyone will 
admit. 

1. There is in all free countries a great demand for 
legislation on all sorts of subjects, mainly due to the 
changes in economic conditions and to the impatience 
of reformers to have all sorts of evils dealt with 
by law. 

2. The difficulty of framing good laws is enormous, 
because most countries are now occupied not merely 
in the comparatively easy task of repealing old laws 
which hampered the action of the citizens, destruc- 
tion is simple work, but in the far harder task of 
creating a new set of laws which shall use the power of 
the community to regulate society and secure the ends 
which reformers and philanthropists desire. Eighty 
years ago Europeans thought that the great thing was 
to get freedom and abolish bad laws. When they had 
got it they were dissatisfied, and instead of simply let- 
ting everybody alone to work out his own weal or woe, 
on individualist principles, they presently set to work 
to forbid many things which had been previously 
tolerated and to throw upon government all sorts of 
new functions, more difficult and delicate than those 
of which they had stripped it. 

Whether the disposition to increase the range of 
governmental action is right or wrong, I am not here 
to discuss. The current is, at least for the moment, 
irresistible, as appears from the fact that it prevails 



90 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

alike in Continental Europe, in England, in the British 
colonies and in the United States. The demand for 
a profusion of legislation is inevitable; and the dif- 
ficulty of having it good is undeniable. In what does 
the difficulty consist ? In three things. First, of 
those who demand legislation, many do not under- 
stand what is the precise evil they desire to cure, the 
precise good they seek to attain. They suffer from 
discontent but cannot diagnose its cause. Secondly, 
when they can trace the evil to its source they seldom 
know what is the proper remedy ; those who agree as 
to the end differ as to the means. Thirdly, the num- 
ber of measures, remedial and constructive, called for 
is so large that it is hard to select those most urgently 
needed. No legislature can deal with all at once. 
Where many are being urged at the same time by 
different persons, they jostle one another, and like peo- 
ple jammed together in the narrow exits of a theatre, 
they move more slowly than if they were made to pass 
along in some regular order. 

It would be easy to suggest, if we were drawing a 
new constitution for a new community, an ideal method 
of securing good legislation and securing it promptly. 
But we have actual concrete constitutions and govern- 
ments to deal with, so, instead of sketching ideals, 
let me briefly describe the actual machinery pro- 
vided in the United States and in Britain for passing 
statutes. This machinery differs materially in the 
two countries. 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 91 

The American plan starts from the principle that 
the Legislative Department must be kept apart from 
the Executive. Accordingly, the administration in the 
National and in the State governments has neither 
the responsibility for preparing and proposing measures 
nor any legally provided means at its disposal for carry- 
ing them through Congress, though the President and 
the State governors can recommend them, and may 
sometimes by an adroit use of their influence, or by 
a forcible appeal to the people, secure the passing of a 
bill. You rely on the zeal and wisdom of the mem- 
bers of Congress to think out, devise, and prepare such 
measures as the country needs ; on the committees of 
your assemblies to revise and amend these measures; 
on the general sense of the assemblies and the judg- 
ment of their presiding officers, or of a so-called "steer- 
ing committee," to advance and pass those of most 
consequence. But should there not happen to be any 
member or group of members who does these things, 
or who does them well, there will be nobody respon- 
sible to the people for a failure to give them what 
they need. 

We, in England, have been led by degrees to an 
opposite principle. The executive is with us primarily 
responsible for legislation and, to use a colloquial ex- 
pression, "runs the whole show," the selection of topics, 
the gathering of information, the preparation of bills 
and their piloting through Parliament. 

I. The requisite information is collected by the de- 



92 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

partment of government to which the subject belongs, 
and frequently the way is paved for legislation by 
means of Royal Commissions or Departmental Com- 
mittees appointed to take evidence and report upon 
topics of importance which need legislation. 

II. When it comes to the actual introduction of a 
measure, the work of determining its substance is done 
by an administrative department of the government 
and the drafting by the government draftsman already 
referred to. The department supplies the matter of 
the bill, the latter puts it into shape. Thus both prac- 
tical knowledge of the subject and professional skill 
for giving legal form to the measure to be enacted, are 
secured. All the more important measures of each 
session are brought in by the Ministry on their re- 
sponsibility as leaders of the majority in the House 
of Commons. The most important, including those 
likely to raise party controversy, are considered by 
the Cabinet, sometimes also by a Cabinet committee, 
and sometimes at great length. I remember one case 
in which an important bill was altered and reprinted 
in twenty-two successive drafts, and another case in 
which a large and controversial bill occupied prac- 
tically the whole time of the Cabinet during six long 
sittings. 

Bills brought in by private members are drafted 
by themselves, or by some lawyer whom they employ 
for the purpose. Should a private member ask a Minis- 
ter or a department for assistance, it would usually be 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 93 

given him, assuming that the department approved the 
end in view. 

III. Once the bill is launched, its fate depends on the 
amount of intelligent care the Legislature is disposed to 
give it and the amount of skill the Minister in charge 
shows in steering the boat which carries its fortunes. 
He has, of course, the assistance of the official drafts- 
man and sometimes of one or more colleagues in pre- 
paring his own amendments and considering those 
proposed by others. He must try to get time enough 
reserved for its passage, the disposal of time resting 
with the government. 

The practical result of our English system may be 
summed up by saying that it secures four things : 

(1) A careful study of the subject before a bill is 
introduced. 

(2) A decision by men of long political experience 
which out of many subjects most need to be dealt with 
by legislation. 

(3) A careful preparation of measures, putting them 
into the form in which they are most likely to pass. 
That may not be always the best form, but there is no 
use in offering to Parliament something too good for such 
a world as the world of practical politics everywhere is. 

(4) The fixing upon someone of responsibility for 
dealing with every urgent question. Whenever an 
evil has to be dealt with or a want supplied by the 
action of the Legislature, there is never any doubt who 
shall do it. The government has got not only to pro- 



94 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

pose something, but to put something through, the 
Minister to whom it belongs having it in charge through 
all its stages. A government which neglects to bring 
in the measures urgently required, or fails through 
weakness to pass them, suffers in credit ; and if the 
matter excites exceptional popular interest possibly 
may be turned out either by an adverse vote in the 
House of Commons, or by the people at the next 
general election. 

There are some defects in the English system of 
Parliamentary legislation, but I need not here refer to 
them, for they do not affect the points I have been 
stating, but arise from other features of our govern- 
ment. The points to be specially emphasized for your 
consideration are that we provide adequate machinery 
for the preparation of measures, and that we make a 
small group of persons, the Cabinet, responsible for 
bringing them in and pushing them. This fixing of 
definite responsibility is perhaps the chief merit of the 
system. 

The Cabinet is responsible because it is really a 
working committee of the majority of the House of 
Commons, which is itself directly chosen by the 
people. The business of the majority is to support 
the Administration, because it leads them, and enjoy- 
ing their confidence, presumably enjoys that of the 
majority of the nation. If the majority withdraw their 
confidence, the Administration falls. 

In France the method of legislation stands half- 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 95 

way between the American and the English methods. 
The Ministry studies a subject, prepares a bill dealing 
with it, and launches the bill into the Chamber. 
There, the bill passes into the hands of a committee 
which amends and perhaps quite remoulds it, then 
returning it to the Chamber with an elaborate report. 
In the Chamber it is in charge, not of the Minister 
who proposed it, but of the committee reporter, the 
Ministry having no more power over its fortunes than 
flows from the fact that they are the leaders of the 
majority and can speak in its support. There are 
also many bills brought in by private members ; and 
these also go to the committees and have apparently 
a better chance than the bills of private members 
have in England. 

Switzerland, like the United States, but unlike France, 
has no Ministers as voting members of either Cham- 
ber, but the members of the Administration, which con- 
sists of seven persons elected by the Legislature, are 
allowed to speak and defend their policy or to advo- 
cate a measure in either the National Council or 
the Senate. 

Both these intermediate systems lose something of 
the momentum which the responsibility of government 
for legislation gives in England, but they also reduce 
the merely party opposition which it has to encounter, 
while they give to the preparation and passing of meas- 
ures the advantage of the cooperation of those whose 
administrative experience enables them to perceive 



96 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

what is really wanted and to judge how it had best be 
attained. 

Whether it is possible to establish in this country, 
consistently with the provisions of the Federal and the 
State Constitutions, any scheme by which the Execu- 
tive can be rendered more helpful to the Legislature or 
by which Legislatures can be organized with a more 
authoritative leadership, and can more completely 
supervise the Administration, this is a question which 
well deserves your consideration. Scientific method, 
which has been applied to everything else, needs 
in our time to be applied more fully and sedulously 
to the details of constitutional and political organi- 
zation than has been anywhere yet done. How- 
ever, if one may judge from the recent action of 
your States, there are certain changes already in 
progress. The sittings of Legislatures have been made 
less frequent and shorter ; and as sessions grow shorter 
State Constitutions grow longer. Not only many 
subjects, but even many minor details of legislation, 
have been withdrawn from the Legislature by being 
placed in the State Constitution, which the Legislature 
cannot change. Direct legislation by the people finds 
increasing favour. Some reformers demand power for 
Congress to deal with topics which formerly were left 
entirely to the State. There is talk of amending the 
Federal Constitution. 

Now let me try to illustrate how scientific method 
may be applied to the constructive part of legislation 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 97 

and the arrangements of Legislatures. It may be 
applied to the collection of data. The facts on which 
laws ought to be based need to be gathered, sifted, 
critically examined. When studying the experiments 
made in other countries, not merely the text of the laws 
but their practical working also needs to be studied. 

Take such subjects as the tariff and the law of cor- 
porations. Although in no other country have cor- 
porations raised such large and difficult problems as 
their growth has created here, other countries have, 
like you, been obliged to keep them under some con- 
trol, and to prevent them from establishing oppressive 
monopolies. Everyone, except the monopolist, wishes 
to check or expunge monopolies, but nobody wants to 
substitute a meddling officialism. How to steer be- 
tween these two evils is no easy problem, and needs 
careful enquiry, with an examination of the laws of 
other countries. 

Wherever there exists a system of customs duties 
meant to protect domestic industries, it becomes neces- 
sary to ascertain how each duty, whether on raw 
materials or on the manufactured article, operates 
upon the manufacturer, the dealer, the consumer ; and 
the more complex and all-embracing a tariff is, so 
much the greater is this need. Both these subjects 
are beyond the knowledge and the skill of the ordinary 
legislator in any country. They need special study by 
persons of exceptional knowledge. The same thing 
holds true of railroads, of mines, of factories, of sanita- 



98 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tion, of irrigation, of forest conservation, and many 
other topics of current interest. All must be ap- 
proached in a scientific way, using the results of the 
experience of other countries. 

Methods, too, have to be studied as well as facts. 
To devise and apply sound methods of legislation is 
equally a matter requiring careful study and a knowl- 
edge of the systems which have succeeded elsewhere. 
I have ventured to suggest to you that the British 
system deserves your study in two points. One 
touches the distinction to be drawn between the work 
proper to a supreme legislative body, and that which 
is better left to some administrative or judicial author- 
ity, making rules under a power delegated by the Legis- 
lature. Another relates to the still more important 
distinction between bills relating to local and personal 
matters and those which designed to affect the general 
law of the land. The more these local matters in 
which the pecuniary interests of persons or corpora- 
tions are involved can be kept apart from politics, the 
better. They are usually fitter for a sort of investiga- 
tion, judicial in its form, though not necessarily con- 
ducted by lawyers. To take them out of the ordinary 
business of a legislature saves legislative time, while it 
removes temptation. It sets the members of a legisla- 
tive body free to deal with the really important general 
issues affecting the welfare of the people which are 
now crowding upon them. It helps them to appeal to 
the people upon those general issues rather than in 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 99 

respect of what each member may have done for the 
locality he represents. Many of your statesmen have 
told me that in those States where dissatisfaction with 
the conduct of legislatures is expressed, that disap- 
proval is chiefly due to their handling of local and 
personal bills. 

Let me sum up hi a few propositions, generally appli- 
cable to modern free nations, the views which I have 
sought to bring before you. . 

I. The demand for legislation has increased and is 
increasing both here and in all civilized countries. 

II. The task of legislation becomes more and more 
difficult, owing to the complexity of modern civiliza- 
tion, the vast scale of modern industry and commerce, 
the growth of new modes of production and distribution 
that need to be regulated, yet so regulated as not to 
interfere with the free play of individual enterprise. 

III. Many of the problems which legislation now 
presents are too hard for the average members of legis- 
lative bodies, however high their personal ability, be- 
cause they cannot be mastered without special knowl- 
edge. (It may be added that in the United States a 
further difficulty arises from the fact that legal skill is 
often required to avoid transgressing some provision 
of the Federal or a State Constitution.) 

IV. The above conditions make it desirable to have 
some organized system for the gathering and examina- 
tion of materials for legislation, and especially for 
collecting, digesting, and making available for easy 



ioo UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

reference the laws passed in other countries on subjects 
of current importance and an account of the results 
obtained thereby. 

V. In order to secure the pushing forward of meas- 
ures needed in the public interest, there should be in 
every Legislature arrangements by which some definite 
person or body of persons becomes responsible for the 
conduct of legislation. 

VI. Every Legislature has in our days more work 
thrown on it than it can find time to handle properly. 
In order, therefore, to secure sufficient time for the 
consideration of measures of general and permanent 
applicability, such matters as those relating to the de- 
tails of administration or in the nature of executive 
orders should be left to be dealt with by the adminis- 
trative department of government, under delegated 
powers, possibly with a right reserved to the Legisla- 
ture to disapprove regulations or orders so made. 

VII. Similarly, the more detailed rules of legal pro- 
cedure ought to be left to the judicial department or 
some body commissioned by it, instead of being regu- 
lated by statute. 

VIII. Bills of a local or personal nature ought to be 
separated from bills of general application and dealt 
with in a different and quasi-judicial way. 

IX. Arrangements ought to be made, as, for in- 
stance, by the creation of a drafting department con- 
nected with a Legislature or its chief committees, for 
the putting into proper legal form of all bills introduced. 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 101 

X. Similarly, a method should be provided for recti- 
fying in bills at the latest stage before they pass into 
law such errors in drafting as may have crept into them 
during their passage. 

XI. When any bill of an experimental kind has been 
passed, its workings should be carefully watched and 
periodically reported on as respects both the extent 
to which it is actually enforced (or found enforcible) 
and the practical results of the enforcement. A de- 
partment charged with the enforcement of any act 
would naturally be the proper authority to report. 

XII. In order to enable both the Legislature and 
the people to learn what the statute law in force actually 
is, and thereby to facilitate good legislation, the statute 
law ought to be periodically revised, and as far as pos- 
sible so consolidated as to be brought into a compact, 
consistent, and intelligible shape. 

I venture to submit these general observations be- 
cause to-day there is everywhere an unusual ferment 
over economic and social questions and a loud de- 
mand for all sorts of remedies, some of them crude, 
some useless, some few possibly pernicious. Here, in 
the United States, this ferment takes a form conditioned 
by your constitutional arrangements and your political 
habits. There seems to be in many quarters a belief 
that the State governments cannot deal with some of 
the large questions that interest the whole country. 
Yet there is also a fear to disturb the existing balance 
of powers and functions between the State authorities 

LIBRARY 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 

RIVERSIDE 



102 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and the National government. There is a feeling that 
evils exist which governments ought to deal with, and for 
dealing with which the existing powers of governments 
ought to be extended. Yet there is also a reluctance 
to multiply officials and a dread of anything approach- 
ing the bureaucratic paternalism of Continental Eu- 
rope. We are hovering between discontent and doubt. 
The reforming spirit runs so strong that it would sweep 
off their feet any people which had not, as you have, 
become attached to their old institutions. So, again, 
there is a disposition to criticize State governments and 
city governments, and to appeal to good citizens, as 
voicing the best public opinion, to step in and do by 
voluntary organizations whatever useful work those 
governments are failing to do. But how is public opin- 
ion to be organized, concentrated, focussed ? Who are 
the persons to give it that definite and authoritative 
expression, directed to concrete remedies, which will 
enable it to prevail ? These are some of the problems 
which appear to be occupying your minds, as, under 
different forms, they occupy us in Europe. They will, 
doubtless, like other problems in the past which were 
even harder, be all solved in good time, solved all the 
better because there is, here in America, little of that 
passion which has at other times or in other countries 
overborne the voice of reason. 

Meantime, as there is evidently a good deal of legis- 
lation before you, every improvement in the machinery 
of legislation and the conditions of legislation that can 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 103 

be made is worth making, every light that the ex- 
perience of other countries can suggest is worth 
receiving and using. 

I once listened to an address on Improvements needed 
in Modern Education, delivered by an eminent man of 
science. He began by proving to us that those of his 
scientific brethren who assigned to our earth a life of 
only three or four million years were entirely mistaken, 
for there was every reason to believe it would last 
twice or thrice that length of time. From this he 
drew the conclusion that it really was worth while, 
with this long future before us, to attempt fundamental 
reforms in our educational system. We who heard him 
thought that even with only a few thousands of years to 
look forward to, reforms would be worth making. So 
to you I will say that without venturing to look even 
thousands of years ahead, there is before us such a 
prospect of an increasing demand for legislation that it 
is well worth while to secure by every possible device 
the efficiency of our legislative machinery. 

The great profession to which you belong has a 
special call to exert in this direction its influence, which 
has often been exerted for the benefit of the nation. 
You know such weak points as there may be in the 
existing legislative machinery. You know them as 
practical men who can apply practical remedies. If 
you see a public benefit in separating different classes 
of bills and treating the special, or local and personal, 
bills in a different way from the public ones, you can 



104 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

best judge how this should be done. You have daily 
experience of the trouble which arises from obscurities 
or inconsistencies in the statutes passed, of the waste- 
ful litigation due to the uncertainty of the law, with 
all the expense and vexation which follow. You are, 
I hear on all hands, not satisfied with the criminal pro- 
cedure in many of your States. These are matters 
within your professional knowledge. You can, with 
the authority of experts, recommend measures you 
deem good, and remonstrate against those that threaten 
mischief; and I understand that remonstrances pro- 
ceeding from the Bar are frequently effective. 

Some cynical critics have suggested that the legal 
profession regard with equanimity defects in the law 
which may increase the volume of law suits. The tiger, 
it is said, cannot be expected to join in clearing away 
the jungle. This unappreciative view finds little sup- 
port in facts. Allowing for the natural conservatism 
which the habit of using technical rules induces in 
lawyers, and which may sometimes make them over- 
cautious in judging proposals of change, they have, 
both here and in England, borne a creditable part in 
the amendment of the law. It is a mistake to think 
they profit by its defects. Where it is clear and definite, 
where legal procedure is prompt and not too costly, 
men are far more ready to resort to the Courts for the 
settlement of their disputes. It is the prospect of un- 
certainty, delay, and expense that leads them to pocket 
up their wrongs and endure their losses. Even, there- 



CONDITIONS AND METHODS OF LEGISLATION 105 

fore, on the lower ground of self-interest, the Bar 
(except perhaps a few of its least desirable members) 
does not gain by a defective state of the law. But 
apart from this, every man who feels the dignity of his 
profession, who pursues it as a science, who realizes 
that those whose function it is thoroughly to under- 
stand and honestly to apply the law, are, if one may 
use the somewhat highflown phrase of a great Roman 
jurist, the Priests of Justice, every such man will 
wish to see the law made as perfect as it can be. So, 
too, whoever realizes, as in the practice of your pro- 
fession you must daily do, how greatly the welfare of 
the people depends on the clearness, the precision, and 
the substantial justice of the law, will gladly contribute 
his knowledge and his influence to furthering so excel- 
lent a work. There is no nobler calling than ours, 
when it is pursued in a worthy spirit. 

Your profession has had a great share in moulding 
the institutions of the United States. Many of the 
most famous Presidents and Ministers and leaders in 
Congress have been lawyers. It must always hold a 
leading place in such a government as yours. You 
possess opportunities beyond any other section of the 
community for forming and guiding and enlightening 
the community in all that appertains to legislation. 
Tocqueville said eighty years ago : " The profession of 
the law serves as a counterpoise to democracy." We 
should to-day be more inclined to say that after having 
given to democracy its legal framework, it keeps that 



io6 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

framework in working order by elucidating the prin- 
ciples which the people have laid down in constitutions. 
To you, therefore, as an organized body of lawyers, one 
may fitly address these observations on legislative 
methods drawn from the experience of Europe. We live 
in critical times, when the best way of averting hasty 
or possibly even revolutionary changes is to be found 
in the speedy application of remedial measures. Both 
here and in Europe improvements in the methods of 
legislation will not only enable the will of the people 
to be more adequately expressed, but will help that 
will to express itself with temperance and wisdom. 

What is legislation but an effort of the people to pro- 
mote their common welfare ? What is a Legislature but 
a body of men chosen to make and supervise the work- 
ing of the rules framed for that purpose ? No country 
has ever been able to fill its legislatures with its wisest 
men, but every country may at least enable them to 
apply the best methods, and provide them with the 
amplest materials. 

The omens are favourable. 

Never, I think, since the close of the Civil War, has 
there been among the best citizens of the United States 
so active a public spirit, so warm and pervasive a de- 
sire to make progress in removing all such evils as 
legislation can touch. Never were the best men, both 
in your legislatures and in the highest executive posts, 
more sure of sympathy and support hi their labours 
for the common weal. 



THOMAS JEFFERSON: THIRD PRESIDENT 
OF THE UNITED STATES AND FOUNDER 
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 

DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ON FOUNDER'S DAY, 
APRIL 13, 1908. 



THOMAS JEFFERSON: THIRD PRESIDENT 
OF THE UNITED STATES AND FOUNDER 
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 

DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA ON FOUNDER'S DAY, 
APRIL 13, 1908. 

No one can stand here without thinking much and 
wishing to say much about Thomas Jefferson, the 
founder of this famous University, and next to George 
Washington one of the two or three most remarkable 
men that Virginia has given to the United States and 
to the world. Yet I must refrain from attempting 
to describe his striking personality. Not that there is 
anything to deter me personally or officially from 
attempting the task. To-day nothing need prevent the 
representative of the great grandson of King George the 
Third from paying a tribute to the gifts and the achieve- 
ments of the draftsman of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence. Nor ought I forget, in this connection, to 
remind you that Jefferson was in his later days the dis- 
interested advocate of the most friendly relations with 
England, the policy of which he had so often opposed. 
But hours, rather than the few minutes at my disposal, 
would be needed to do justice to a character so varied 
and so complex, to a career connected with so many 
great events and entangled into the web of so many 

109 



no UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

personal and political controversies. Moreover, in 
painting the portrait it would not be right to give the 
lights without giving also the shadows ; and this is not 
the place in which one could bring oneself to speak any- 
thing but praise of the illustrious founder of an illustri- 
ous institution. 

It is easy to pick holes in the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence, and to decry, as one of your own distinguished 
men did, its "glittering generalities." But under the 
rhetoric and the overbold and overbroad assertions of 
doctrine it contains, there is a condensed and concen- 
trated force which few documents have equalled, and 
which accounts for the immense power it has exerted. 
There is, however, I may say, one matter on which all 
are agreed whether or no they approve the principles and 
the doings of Jefferson. He was a man of a wonderfully 
vigorous and many-sided activity. Scarcely a subject 
of enquiry lay outside of the range of his versatile in- 
tellect. Whether you like him or not, you cannot help 
being attracted by him. Whether you think his in- 
fluence on American politics and thought to have been 
in the mam wholesome or pernicious, you must admit 
that influence to have been pervading and permanent. 
How far it is still a really effective influence, now that 
the conditions of the United States have become so dif- 
ferent from those which surrounded him, I will not 
attempt to determine. His writings are no longer 
widely read; his name is more often on the lips than 
are his ideas fresh in the recollection of those who pro- 



THOMAS JEFFERSON in 

fess themselves his disciples and seek to conjure with his 
authority. But that men should still call themselves 
his disciples and should, nearly a century after his 
death, claim to be maintaining his traditions, is a re- 
markable tribute to his gifts, and a remarkable evidence 
of the power he exerted in his own time upon the great 
party that still looks back to him as its founder. 

He had a lively interest not only in human affairs 
but also in all matters of natural history, an interest 
which sometimes led him into odd hypotheses, as when 
he conjectured that the bareness of the Western prairies 
which were being explored in his day was due to the 
action of the mastodons, the remains of those pri- 
meval monsters had been recently discovered who 
had devoured all the trees. But this sort of interest 
strikes us as being all the more remarkable because he 
was in a notable degree a-man of the eighteenth century. 
His whole way of thinking is unlike our way of to-day, 
and we might say that compared with such contempo- 
raries as Bentham, Burke, Alexander Hamilton, and still 
more if he be compared with such much younger con- 
temporaries as Goethe and Coleridge, Jefferson is 
almost archaic. Yet having a bright, keen, inventive 
mind, which played freely round many subjects, he 
was sometimes in advance of his time, and hit upon 
ideas characteristically modern. 

Of all Jefferson's ideas and projects none lay nearer 
to his heart and none deserve such unqualified praise 
as his faith in education and his efforts to diffuse it. 



112 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

He desired to establish in Virginia a scheme of general 
elementary instruction and to create therewith a 
system of upper secondary schools corresponding 
broadly to the grammar schools of England, though 
with a less purely classical curriculum, and then to 
complete the fabric by a University whose aims should 
be commensurate with all human knowledge and 
which should recognize, both in the variety of its 
studies and in the range of choice allowed among 
those studies, as well as in the absence of ecclesiastical 
control and even of coercive discipline, those prin- 
ciples of liberty which he held so dear. 

It was a fine and fertile conception. It does all the 
more credit to Jefferson because nearly all the col- 
leges of the United States were in those days classical 
or mathematical academies attached to particular 
denominations and with a narrow range of subjects, 
drilling their pupils thoroughly, but drilling them on 
old-fashioned methods. Ardently interested in all 
sorts of studies, natural as well as civil or humanistic, 
Jefferson desired a University which should take, as 
Bacon said, all knowledge to be its province, and should 
provide instruction hi every subject that men sought 
to study. This view of a university the old true 
view of those early Middle Ages when universities 
first arose but when there were few subjects to study 
had been almost forgotten. We are so familiar 
with it now that we scarcely realize how novel it 
was when propounded by Jefferson, and how much 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 113 

it transcended the common notions of his own times 
when, in England, Oxford and Cambridge were just 
beginning to awake from their long torpor, days during 
which it had been left to the Universities of Scotland 
to keep ablaze the sacred torch in Britain. Jefferson 
lit the torch afresh in the South. In 1779 he tried to 
secure a scheme for establishing popular education. In 
1794 he sought to transfer bodily to Virginia the whole 
faculty of the University of Geneva, threatened by the 
progress of the Revolution in France, a really brilliant 
idea, which ought to have been carried out, for the gam 
to America would at that time have been greater than 
the loss to Geneva. Never thereafter did he desist from 
his efforts, till in 1819 the Legislature passed an act, 
which, while providing primary schools, crowned the 
edifice by making an appropriation for the University 
of Virginia. You remember his own words, "Our 
University, the last of my mortal cares and the last 
service I can render to my country." 

Jefferson carried further than any other man of equal 
ability and equally large practical experience has done, 
for we need not place in the category of practical men 
the contemporary visionaries of France, a faith in the 
politicial perfectibility of mankind. He believed, or at 
least he frequently declared, because we cannot be sure 
that all he said represented his permanent convictions, 
that the greatest evil from which men suffered was the 
control of other men. He liked to call that control 
Tyranny, but the language he sometimes used was ap- 



U4 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

plicable not merely to a despotic and irresponsible power 
but to many other kinds of authority. He would appear 
to have thought that liberty was so much the best thing 
in the world that with enough of it all human affairs 
would go well, and he so heartily distrusted authority 
as to conceive that insurrections were needed every now 
and then to check the misdeeds of rulers. 

When one reads Jefferson's writings and examines 
his conduct, considering on the one hand his faith in 
the people, the average uninstructed people, of his 
day, and on the other hand his high sense of the value 
of knowledge and his constant efforts to spread uni- 
versity instruction, three questions present themselves 
to our minds questions of permanent interest for 
all students of politics. 

The first of these questions is, How far is it true 
that the people are sure to go right ? As you here would 
express it in familiar terms, Is the average man 
the farmer or the artisan "fit to run a democracy" ? 
He is always being told so on public platforms. But is 
he really so ? and do those who tell him so always believe 
what they say ? If freedom alone is enough to enable a 
people to govern themselves well, that is to say, if the 
impulses of man are preponderatingly good, if the masses 
may be trusted to know their own true interest, and 
to select the proper means to secure it, the average man 
ought to be able to do so. Yet Jefferson evidently had 
his misgivings. Though he refrained from the condem- 
nation which he ought to have passed on the excesses 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 115 

committed by some of his French Revolutionary friends, 
he knew well enough that a great deal more than the 
abolition of monarchy and "aristocracy" was needed to 
secure good government; and his own experience in 
office was amply sufficient to show him how many knots 
there are that the "average man" cannot untie. 

This question is so large that I must not attempt to 
discuss it here. I am content to commend it to your 
reflection as one of the most momentous and funda- 
mental questions of politics that has ever occupied 
men's minds. We are always getting fresh light upon 
it every year, and from every part of the world where 
power has been placed in the hands of the multitude. 
It has appeared in a somewhat new form hi the exten- 
sion which men seek to give to the principle of direct 
legislation by the institutions of the Initiative and the 
Referendum. The amount of truth contained in 
Jefferson's sanguine view of human nature is really the 
basic problem of all politics and of all government, 
which men are continually trying to solve, and no 
doubt we have advanced further towards a knowledge 
of its conditions than had the founders of your republic 
and of the French Republic of those days, for the world 
has had a much ampler experience of popular govern- 
ments, or at least of governments claiming to be popular. 
That experience ranges downward from republics so 
well governed as Switzerland and the Orange Free 
State to republics of the class to which Nicaragua and 
Hayti belong. 



Ii6 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

A second question suggested by Jefferson's ideas and 
efforts is this: What ought to be, and what has usually 
been, the effect of education on the highly educated 
man so far as politics are concerned ? Have knowledge 
and training been found to give him a deeper sympathy 
with the people and a greater fitness for leading the 
people, or do they rather cut him off from the masses, 
making him detached, perhaps supercilious, possibly 
even scornful or cynical ? 

The question I put to you is not that which is often 
debated in Europe, though seldom here, whether the 
masses of the people on the one hand, or the wealthier 
and educated class on the other, are more generally 
likely to be right that is, to be shewn by the result 
to have been right in their attitude on political ques- 
tions. It is rather this question : What is the effect 
of the highest education, coupled with superior intel- 
lectual gifts, on a man's political attitude and ten- 
dencies ? Will it tend to increase or to reduce his faith 
in popular government ? 

You may say that this will depend upon his tempera- 
ment, whether he is hopeful and buoyant, or timid and 
despondent. No doubt temperament, which itself de- 
pends largely on physical health, does make a difference. 
But the average of cheerful and gloomy temperaments, 
or of bad and good digestions, is pretty much the same in 
the best educated and the least educated classes, so the 
element of temperamental difference may be eliminated. 

Instead of trying to discover a priori what sort of 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 117 

influence high intellectual capacity and a store of knowl- 
edge might be expected to have on a man's political 
tendencies, let us see what has in fact been the attitude 
of such gifted men towards the politics of their own 
countries. We shall find plenty of instances on both 
sides. If you take those republics of antiquity which 
the contemporaries of Jefferson were so fond of talking 
about, you will find some great thinkers on the side 
of democracy and some against it. This happened also 
in modern Europe. In England, for instance, Milton, 
Locke, Addison, Adam Smith, Bentham, Romilly, 
Mackintosh, were in their days more or less on the popu- 
lar or reforming side, while Hobbes, Swift, Bolingbroke, 
David Hume, Samuel Johnson, were on the other. 
Some great men, such as Burke, Coleridge, and Words- 
worth began in the one camp and ended in the other, 
altering their position as life went on under what people 
call the teaching of events. 

Is there then no general principle to be discovered 
affecting the attitude or sympathies of leading thinkers, 
and are they divided between Liberals and Conserva- 
tives just like other men ? 

Let me suggest to you such a principle, the hint of 
which comes to me from what we have seen happen in 
Europe during the last fifty years. 

Fifty years ago there were in Continental Europe 
no free governments except in some small States, 
Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, and the Scandinavian 
countries. In some countries, such as Russia, Austria, 



n8 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the whole of Italy, except Piedmont, and to some ex- 
tent in France under Louis Napoleon's sway, there ex- 
isted not only arbitrary rule but an administration which 
was oppressive and generally inefficient. In Prussia, 
and some other German states, the administration 
was good, but the people had little influence upon it. 
Now, in all these countries at that tune the great 
majority of superior minds were strongly liberal. 
They saw the evils of the existing system more clearly 
than did other men hi their own rank of life ; and 
whether or no they suffered personally from misgovern- 
ment, they were disgusted by it and anxious to over- 
throw it. 

To-day in Continental Europe the position is dif- 
ferent. I will not attempt to decide to which side the 
preponderance of men distinguished in literature and 
science belongs. Many might be named as conspicu- 
ous on each side. But such men, taken as a whole, 
are more generally conservative in temper, and less 
heartily democratic in opinion, than men of the 
same type were in 1858. Why is this? Because 
the facts are different. The liberty formerly sought 
has, in most European countries, now been attained, 
while the administrative evils which then excited 
indignation have now been largely removed. Experi- 
ence has, moreover, disclosed evils incident to some 
forms of popular government which were not and 
could not have been felt while arbitrary government 
held the field, and because demands are now made 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 119 

in the name of liberty for further changes, political or 
economical, which many deem to be dangerous. De- 
mocracy has not brought with it all the benefits that 
were expected, so there has been a certain revulsion of 
feeling against democratic government. Many of the 
most powerful minds are occupied in trying not to 
broaden and deepen its channel, but to erect barriers that 
may check or guide its flow. But if arbitrary govern- 
ment were in any country to gam once more the upper 
hand, a thing very improbable (so far as we can look 
forward) either here or in western Europe, no doubt 
there would, among the thinkers in such a country, be 
as strong a tendency away from it back toward popular 
government as there was fifty years ago. 

History will supply you with many other instances 
to illustrate this law of a reaction of great thinkers 
against the tendencies of their own time. Plato's 
criticism of the Athenian democracy is the most 
familiar instance. The explanation is simple enough. 
Penetrating minds see the causes of the evils that exist 
around them more clearly than other men do, and ardent 
minds have a stronger impulse to sweep away those evils. 
Men of imagination have a finer vision of what the world 
might be, and incline to condemn what exists because 
they believe in the possibility of something better. 
Whatever the actually existing institutions may be, they 
see the faults of those institutions. They despise the 
catchwords of a dominant party, they see the hollowness 
of current prejudices and the weakness of many a cur- 



120 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

rent theory; they condemn the tendency to push a prin- 
ciple to extremes, and the intoxication with its own power 
which sometimes seizes upon the multitude. The same 
tendency that makes the great thinker in an age of 
despotism an advocate of popular government may make 
him conservative in an age when popular government 
seems to him to be in danger of going too fast or too far. 
So we may say, speaking broadly, that the philosopher 
and the idealist tend to be in opposition to the prevalent 
tendencies of their own time, be those tendencies what 
they may. Such men are apt to be hi the minority. 
One might almost say that they belong rather to the 
future (or perhaps, like Dante, to an idealized past) than 
to the present ; because it is they who are most exempt 
from the habit of blind obedience and the sway of 
custom, and are least inclined to acquiesce in what 
exists merely because it exists. 

The moral of this is a moral fit to be stated and 
reiterated and emphasized in a University that 
no one must ever be afraid of being in a minority. 
Where at any rate the question is not of immediate 
action hi a matter lying within the competence of the 
average man, for in such things the average man may 
fairly claim to prevail, but a question requiring wide 
knowledge or serious and independent thought, he 
who is hi a minority is at least as likely to be right as 
he who is in a majority. The majority must no doubt 
prevail, for no means has been discovered of weighing 
as well as counting votes. But to prevail and to be 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 121 

right are not the same thing; and in a democracy 
men must never be dissuaded, because they have been 
out-voted, from continuing to assert their convictions. 
Obey the majority while they are the majority, but 
do not for a moment suppose that because they are the 
majority they are right. 

Thus the finest kind of mind may be, according to 
the circumstances of his time, either a liberal or a 
conservative, a man who cries " Forward " or a man who 
cries "Walk warily." But he will usually be one who 
rises above the passions and prejudices of the moment, 
who refuses to follow the crowd, who is not moved by 
popular cries. It is well that this should be so, 
provided always that the detachment of the indepen- 
dent thinker does not go so far as to put him out of 
touch with the sentiment of his country and so prevent 
him from serving it. The great thinker who tries to 
be also a good citizen will have enough sympathy with 
his fellow-men to see that he must adapt his counsels 
to their needs, and must, instead of soaring above 
them, place himself on their level, and speak to them 
in a language they can understand. He ought to be 
independent ; he must not stand apart in isolation. 

This brings me to the third question, which a reflec- 
tion upon Jefferson and his faith in university education 
suggests. What should a university do for its students 
in the way of fitting them for a life of learning or a life 
of public service ? That it should give them knowledge 
is obvious enough. But it should also give them what 



122 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

is even better than knowledge; that is, Wisdom, by 
which I mean the power to apply an intelligent criti- 
cism to facts and ideas, to look at things all round, to 
know how to get principles out of facts, and to test 
the worth of ideas by their conformity to facts. 

It should also teach them public spirit and the love 
of truth. 

Public spirit is often spoken of as a moral virtue. 
That it is, but it is a virtue which intellectual 
training may help to form. The function of Philosophy 
and History is so to enlarge our minds that we may 
see how each man's highest interest, conceived in its 
true moral aspect, is bound up with the public weal, 
and how nations and states prosper or decline just 
in proportion as the public interest prevails in 
their government or as that interest is allowed to 
be overborne by the selfish interest of classes or of 
individuals. 

Still more evidently is it the duty of a university to 
instil a devotion to truth. Knowledge and wisdom 
and practical shrewdness, a sense of how to adapt 
means to ends, are needed in all the walks of life any 
one may have to tread. But in whatever work is 
to be done for the permanent benefit of mankind, be 
it for learning or science, be it for theology or poli- 
tics; and also for all the higher kinds of practical 
achievement that the service of the Church or the State 
demands, the one vital and supreme requisite is a de- 
sire to find the truth and a resolve to follow it when 



THOMAS JEFFERSON 123 

found. The temptation that most easily besets us 
all is to let personal interest, or vanity, or party spirit, 
or friendship, or even the sense of beauty, distract us 
from the pursuit of truth. Now the habit of seeking 
truth, though it is rightly counted among the moral 
virtues, is a habit which University training can help 
us to acquire through the examples set by great scholars 
and historians and investigators of nature, and by the 
practice of critical methods applied with scrupulous 
accuracy. It is the ever-present note of the real scholar, 
the real philosopher, the real historian. 

The bitterest critics of Thomas Jefferson have never 
denied his patriotic devotion to the interests of Virginia 
nor ever disparaged his zeal for the spread of knowl- 
edge. It was the union in him of these two passions 
that prompted his life-long labors for the establishment 
of your University. There are no excellences which 
he would have more desired that it should implant in 
its students. Nor has its career belied his hopes. 
The University of Virginia has always sent forth men 
eminent both in learning and in the field of public life. 
She has never condescended to the superficial or the 
meretricious. Her standards of attainment have been 
high and her scholars have maintained them. She 
has been also a home of patriotism and civic virtue. 
Many of her sons have done splendid service for the 
nation, and have reflected glory upon this seat of learn- 
ing and on the Commonwealth of Virginia. May this 
oldest of all your States, the mother of Washington 



124 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and of so many other illustrious figures in American 
history, ever hold high that banner of freedom and 
enlightenment which her founders planted on the 
shores of the New World three hundred and one 
years ago. 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE LAYMEN'S MISSIONARY CONVENTION 
AT CHATTANOOGA, MAY 21, 1907. 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE LAYMEN'S MISSIONARY CONVENTION 
AT CHATTANOOGA, MAY 21, 1907. 

THE history of Christian Missions combines the 
interest which attaches to striking characters and 
strange adventures with that of tracing a long world 
movement which has passed through various phases, 
and has in each of them affected, and been affected by, 
events of the first moment. A comprehensive view of 
that history, connecting it with the general progress 
on the one hand of geographical discovery and on the 
other of religious thought and practice, would be a 
theme worthy of a philosophic historian. It is, how- 
ever, only with the most recent phases of missionary 
work that I can attempt to deal in this address. 

In the ancient world there was, before Christianity 
appeared, neither religious propaganda nor religious 
persecution. Each tribe, each region, had its own 
special or local gods, and each respected the local 
gods of the others. If now and then some invad- 
ing general pillaged a sanctuary of the deities of 
another country, it was avarice alone that prompted 
him. Opinion condemned him, and he was likely 
so men believed to receive speedy punishment at the 

127 



128 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

hands of the offended powers. Thus the worship of one 
set of gods did not exclude the worship of another set, 
for all deities were deemed entitled to respect, each in 
his own jurisdiction. Similarly, since no faith claimed 
to be exclusively true or of universal authority, its 
votaries had no reason for trying to convert others to 
it by persuasion, nor for persecuting those who adhered 
to their local worships. Even when the people of Israel 
denied the existence of any God but their own, they 
did not seek to proselytize, because it was to Israel 
alone that Jehovah had revealed himself. 

With the advent of Christianity the scene changed. 
It claimed to be the only true religion, and sought to 
save a world lying in wickedness by denouncing and 
expunging all the worships of the heathen. Devotion 
to God and love for perishing men alike made the 
propagation of the faith its first duty. Hence it 
encountered a hostility never previously aroused by 
any other religion. The first missions were immediately 
followed by the first persecutions. After three cen- 
turies of missionary progress, frequently interrupted 
by relentless severities, Christianity triumphed. Two 
centuries later, being then supported by the whole 
power of the State, it began to repress first the linger- 
ing devotees of paganism, then those who, differing 
from the ruling orthodoxy, had been branded as here- 
tics by Councils of the Church. So were ushered in 
those ages of persecution which in Spain and Spanish 
America lasted down to the days of our grandfathers. 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 129 

There is a striking passage in Lucretius in which 
he laments the evil wrought by superstition, referring 
to the instances of human sacrifice, rare as these were 
in Greece or Rome, though common enough at Car- 
thage, and dwelling on the gloom cast upon life by 
the fear of suffering after death. He wrote before 
religious persecution had been dreamt of. How 
much darker would have been the picture a poet 
might have drawn in those later centuries when it 
was deemed a duty to extirpate heresy by the sword 
and the faggot ! 

One may distinguish three chief phases among those 
through which missions have passed. In the first, 
which began with the Apostles, and was continued 
through a long line of glorious saints, Christianity 
went forth, trusting entirely to the power and the pur- 
ity of its own teachings. It promised salvation through 
Christ and through a life led in obedience to his pre- 
cepts. St. Patrick preached to the Gael of Ireland, 
St. Columba to the Picts of North Britain, St. Augus- 
tine to the heathen of Kent, St. Boniface, St. Columban, 
St. Gall, and many another missionary from the British 
Isles to the heathen of Germany. Some of them died 
a martyr's death. All of them went out like sheep 
among wolves, trusting only to the help and blessing 
of God. 

In the eighth century a change came. The Prankish 
Charles the Great carried his arms against the pagan 
Saxons, and made conversion a part of conquest and 



130 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

a pledge of submission. From his time on other 
Christian warriors, some of them from ambition, some 
from what they believed to be piety, spread the king- 
dom of the Cross by arms. Olaf Tryggyvason in Nor- 
way and the Crusaders in Palestine, and after them the 
Teutonic knights on the shores of the Baltic, gave the 
choice between baptism and death. So did the Span- 
iards when they burst into the New World. Wherever 
these terrible conquerors went, the native worships were 
blotted out and Christianity enforced at the sword's 
point. They were continuing beyond the ocean the 
crusade on behalf of the Faith which they had only 
just completed in Spain against the Moors. 

With them, however, the forcible propagation of Chris- 
tianity practically ended. Neither the French mis- 
sionaries on the St. Lawrence and the Great Lakes, 
nor the English missionaries like John Eliot in Massa- 
chusetts sought the aid of carnal weapons. The earlier 
and better stage in which the Gospel relied on its own 
intrinsic virtue was now returning. In this third stage 
missions have, with few exceptions, remained ever since ; 
but it is still worth while to remember into what un- 
Christian conduct misguided zeal drove men who 
thought they were helping Christianity. 

In our own time missions entered on what may be 
called a fourth stage, in which their aim and purpose is 
differently conceived. We have learnt to distinguish 
more carefully between different kinds of non-Christian 
religions and to recognize the good features that belong 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 131 

to some of them, especially to Buddhism and to 
Islam. Time was when the success of a mission was 
measured by the number of congregations it was able 
to form in a heathen country, and the number of con- 
verts annually added to the fold. But this is now no 
longer deemed the chief object of its work, and the 
mere public profession of adherence to Christianity 
is valued only when it is believed to indicate a real 
and permanent change of life and mind. 

The views now entertained as to the future in another 
world of those who pass into it without ever having 
heard the Gospel message, are less despondent than 
those that prevailed among Christians eighty years 
ago. There is an enlarged conception of what 
is meant by bringing truth and light to the peo- 
ple that sat in darkness, and it begins to be felt 
that what is needed is to raise the whole conception 
of life and transform the character by implanting 
higher ideals which will cut off at the root the degrad- 
ing customs of pagan life. When the missionary has 
to deal with the religions of the more civilized non- 
Christian peoples, he treats with respect whatever is 
best in the moral teachings of Buddha or of Mohammed 
and tries to meet the followers of Confucius on the 
ethical ground he and they have in common, feeling 
that even when few converts are made much good 
may be done by the diffusion of elevating ideas and of 
Christian morality. Even such usages and supersti- 
tions as it may be desired to extirpate are treated more 



132 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

gently, not only because we have begun to feel a sort 
of scientific interest in these survivals of primaeval 
custom, but because it is seen that improvements 
come best when they come from within, from a mind and 
heart that has been awakened to a higher view of a 
Divine Power, and of man's relation to it. 

These changes in our views of what missions may 
accomplish and what methods they may follow are 
not the index of any lessened faith or slackening 
earnestness. Preaching is not the only, nor always 
the shortest, way to the end desired. I remember that 
when Dr. Livingstone, after several short journeys, 
finally quitted his mission station to enter upon that 
great exploration of Africa and crusade against the 
slave trade which have given him a place among the 
benefactors of mankind, there were some well-mean- 
ing but small-minded persons who censured him for 
deserting his proper missionary work. But in a few 
years no one doubted that he had rendered infinitely 
greater services to the world and to Christianity by his 
journeys and the light he threw on African problems 
than he could have done by remaining with the little 
Kaffir congregation to which he ministered. 

Such gatherings as the Laymen's Missionary Move- 
ment has been holding all over this country are an evi- 
dence that there is no decline of zeal among American 
Christians. So also the approaching International Con- 
gress in Edinburgh shows that the denominational nar- 
rowness and rivalry which used to distract the efforts 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 133 

of missionary organizations has given place to a frater- 
nal spirit which seeks to make all the religious bodies 
work together, aiming not at uniformity in organi- 
zation, but at friendly cooperation in a common 
cause. It is well this should be so, for the cir- 
cumstances of the time we live in make the claim of 
missions an urgent and insistent call upon all these 
bodies. It is of that urgency, of the movements 
of change now passing on the world, and of the 
need there is for prompt and united action before 
change goes further that I desire to speak. I speak 
as a traveller who has seen missions in many a 
foreign country, and I am emboldened to speak to 
you by remembering that nothing has done more to 
keep the hearts of Americans and Englishmen close 
together than the work they have sought to do in the 
same spirit for the kingdom of God. In these latest 
centuries we have been the two great missionary nations. 
Spanish and Portuguese missionaries did an immense 
work, especially in the sixteenth century : French mis- 
sionaries an immense work, especially in the seven- 
teenth. Germans and Swiss have labored effectually in 
the nineteenth, but your and our peoples have perhaps 
done the most, and have done it on the same lines, in 
the same faith, following the same principles, always 
trusting to the power of truth and not to force. So 
the traveller, wherever he goes, finds American and 
British missionaries always working side by side, 
always ready to help one another. 



134 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

Missions must now be regarded as parts of a great 
world movement, one out of the many influences which 
are now exercised, more powerfully than ever before, 
by the civilized upon the uncivilized or savage peoples. 

The world has grown smaller ; steam and electric- 
ity have brought its parts together; and as the 
civilized races have spread out over its surface, there 
is no place where their influence is not felt, so that, 
with the exception of two ancient empires in the East, 
nearly every part of the world has been brought under 
the control of some of the civilized white races, and 
even those empires are now in close relations with 
white races. Now, that is a new phenomenon. In 
the midst of these new phenomena missions to the un- 
civilized races, are indispensable, for if Christianity is 
not brought to bear upon them, the contact may make 
their last state worse than their first. To that point I 
shall presently return and shall try to convey to you 
two features in the more recent history of missions on 
which it seems proper to dwell, viz., the causes which 
retard the progress of Christianity in uncivilized coun- 
tries, and the special need which exists at this mo- 
ment for diffusing it there. 

Meantime, let me, as one who has seen many 
missions in many parts of the world, bear testi- 
mony to the splendid work which is being done in 
our own time by Christian missionaries. There 
have not been any nobler examples of devotion to 
duty, of self-sacrifice, of the renunciation of the 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 135 

ordinary pleasures and joys of the world for the 
sake of a higher calling, than those which our mission- 
aries have given during the last eighty years. Let me 
pay especial tribute to the work which is being done 
by the many missions of this country. I have seen 
them in India, where their work is admirable, and 
where some of your missionaries are men as wise as 
can be found in that vast country, men who know as 
much about India and are as much worthy to be lis- 
tened to on that subject as any men to be met there. 
No better evidence than theirs can be desired as to 
the working of British rule there, for they can regard 
its action impartially, yet with perfect comprehension; 
I have seen them also in various parts of the Turkish 
East, where they are placed among Mohammedans 
and certain ancient non-Protestant churches. The 
Christian peoples of the East have suffered terribly 
in recent years, and they may have yet a great deal 
to suffer. In 1895 an d 1896 more than one hundred 
thousand Armenian Christians were massacred by the 
orders of Sultan Abdul Hamid. Many of them were 
women, many might have saved their lives if they 
had spoken three words to renounce Christianity; 
yet, like the martyrs of the apostolic age, they refused 
to sacrifice their Christian faith, and went willingly to 
death for the sake of their Lord and Master. Among 
these peoples it has been the duty of your American 
missionaries to labor, not proselytizing but befriending 
them educationally and otherwise. And the best work 



136 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

that has ever been done among them has been done 
by those missionaries. Whenever the English friends 
of the Armenian Chirstians desired to know what was 
happening in Asiatic Turkey, whenever we desired 
to find some means of relieving the famine-stricken 
and down-trodden people, whenever it became neces- 
sary to ascertain what, if anything, could be done 
by political action to alleviate the sufferings of these 
oppressed and martyred races, I have always found 
that the best thing to do was to turn to the American 
missionaries. And I have often heard from members 
of the ancient Armenian church the warmest acknowl- 
edgment of the great services which your missionaries 
have rendered to them. 

Now, when you recall the splendid work which 
missions have done, when we think also of how long 
they have been at work, and of the advantages which 
those who come forth from civilized nations ought to 
possess, are you not sometimes surprised that Christian- 
ity has not long ago overspread the whole world ? Why 
is it that more progress has not been made ? Think 
of the beginnings of Christianity, when St. Paul and 
the other apostles went out to make those first mis- 
sionary tours, recorded in the Acts of the Apostles. 
They went out few in number, through a pagan world, 
a world which was dominated by ancient and powerful 
religions, where all authority and all secular powers 
were on the side of the old religions, and where before 
long those powers, the emperors and their governors 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 137 

and other officers, put forth their whole strength to 
resist and extinguish Christianity ; and a series of cruel 
persecutions took place, extending over nearly three 
centuries, by which it was attempted to root out the 
new religion from the earth. Those persecutions failed. 
Christianity spread itself over the empire against all 
the power the empire could put forth, and made its 
way in the teeth of persecutions until at last it grew 
so strong that the emperors were obliged to recognize 
it ; and from that time forth it became the dominant 
religion over all the world, except fire-worshipping 
Persia, that the Romans knew. It did that work hi 
three centuries. 

Since that time sixteen hundred years have passed, 
and Christianity has had most of the material forces 
of the world on its side, nearly all the military power, 
as well as nearly all the learning and'civilization, ex- 
cept during a comparatively short period when there 
was more literature and science in Musulman than in 
European countries. Why, then, has not Christianity 
succeeded in converting the whole earth ? 

That is, indeed, a question worth asking. It is a 
question you have doubtless often asked yourselves. 
We shall do better to reflect on what we have not ac- 
complished, and try to discover why it is that we have 
failed, than to exult in what we have accomplished. It 
may be that we shall discover some of the causes which 
have weakened us and prevented us from obtaining, 
with material advantages on our side, what the apostles 



138 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and their successors obtained with all the material 
forces and civil powers against them. I am going to 
give one reason ; it is only one of several reasons, but 
it is a reason which is brought forcibly home to who- 
ever travels in uncivilized countries and notes the 
limited success attained by missions in places where 
the zeal and devotion of the missionaries are evident. 

The preaching of the gospel is but one among many 
forces and influences which have been brought to bear 
on the uncivilized races during the last four centuries, 
and some of those other influences have largely neu- 
tralized the effect of the gospel. What was the first 
thing that happened when the Spaniards and the Por- 
tuguese began to settle hi the American islands and 
continents ? One of their main objects was to convert 
the heathen. They were pious, according to their 
lights, and quite sincere in their eagerness to spread the 
faith. They took out a great many friars with them, 
and set them to preaching. The cross was carried up 
and down the islands, and the friars preached ; and the 
natives, whether or not they understood and believed, 
were at any rate baptized and compelled to attend 
mass and say that they were Christians. The native 
religions or superstitions had little hold on these poor, 
simple savages of the Antilles, and of many parts of the 
American continents also, so they yielded easily. 
The Conquerors thought they were saving souls, 
whether by persuasion or force ; and they would have 
thought it absurd not to use force in that holy war- 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 139 

fare. But the Conquerors did something more than 
this. Though the friars came to preach, the adven- 
turers who swarmed into tropical America came with 
a fierce greed for gold. That was what they chiefly 
sought in the New World. Finding gold ornaments 
among the people, they asked where they came from ; 
they searched for the gold mines, and put the natives 
to work in them. They set them also to till the soil, 
and those weak, simple-minded aborigines, accus- 
tomed to raising just enough food to support them- 
selves, were driven to work under the stern eye 
and cruel scourge of a Spanish taskmaster, until in 
the island of Hispaniola (now Hayti )and in the Ba- 
hamas, the whole population died out under the severi- 
ties of the Spanish rule within thirty or forty years 
after the discovery of the islands. The same thing 
happened in the other conquered territories. Wherever 
the Spaniard went he seized the land of the people, 
reduced them to what was virtually slavery, and 
forced them to work in the mines or till the soil for 
him. 

That was probably the most harsh and terrible form 
which the contact of a civilized race with an uncivilized 
ever took. It ended with the extermination of many 
a native tribe. And yet something of that kind, 
though not so bad, has been going on ever since. 
Something of the kind is going on in the South Ameri- 
can forests now. Wherever the strong races who, like the 
Spaniards, possessed horses and firearms, races with the 



140 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

appliances of civilization at their command, have come 
into contact with weaker races, that sort of thing has 
happened. Everywhere the native has gone to the 
wall. Sometimes, where the native race was weak, it 
has been extinguished ; it dies out either under harsh 
treatment or under the diseases which the white 
man brings with him, or through use of the liquor 
which he has supplied to them. In one way or an- 
other the native races, if not extinguished, have at 
any rate become demoralized. They lose those native 
customs which governed their life, and experience 
shews that it is easier to acquire the vices of the white 
man than to imitate his virtues. 

I do not wish to overstate the case. I do not deny 
that some of these evils were inevitable. The contact 
of a superior civilized race with a barbarous race must 
always bring some harm to the weaker. But the evils 
need not have been so great if the civilized men who 
went among the natives had behaved like Christians. 
Unfortunately, that was just what few of them did. 
There were always some good men among them who 
tried to protect the natives, even some laymen among 
the first Spanish conquerors and many among the 
clergy. The noble Las Casas who spent his life in 
trying to protect the American aborigines was only 
one of many excellent Spanish churchmen. But the 
forces of rapine and avarice and that sort of arrogant 
contempt which the strong man feels for the weak 
were more potent forces. Down to our own times 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 141 

you will find that the natives suffered far more than 
they gained. Their land was taken without giving 
them anything for it, and they were driven away 
or shot down. The trader who went among them 
cheated them, and did what was even worse: he 
sold them vile liquor that ruined them body and 
soul. Despite all the efforts made in recent years, 
those practices go on in some places still. It would 
have been a good thing for the natives if the art of 
distillation had never been discovered. It was only 
the other day, after whole tribes had perished, that 
we awakened to a sense of the tremendous evils 
wrought among native peoples by the sale of drink. 
It does harm enough among white people, but far 
more among a savage or semi-civilized race, for they 
are not seasoned to it, as in a certain way a number of 
our own populations have become, and they have less 
self-control than civilized men. It works like poison 
upon them and destroys them. 

These things could not but injure and retard the 
work of Christianity. How was it possible for the 
natives not to look at the practice of the white man as 
well as at his preaching ? The missionary represented 
a religion of justice, of peace, and of love. But with 
the missionary came the man who tried to take away 
the land of the native or sold him worthless goods or 
intoxicated him with his liquor. How was it possible 
for the natives, when they saw these men who called 
themselves "Christians" just as did the missionaries, 



142 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

not to be struck by the divergence between the practice 
and the doctrines of this new religion ? The saying is 
attributed to some African prince that the process going 
on in his country was : "First missionary, then trader, 
then army." The missionary came first, and well it 
would have been if he had been left to do his work 
alone. But before the missionary had succeeded in 
Christianizing the people, the trader came to undo the 
missionary's work. 

Even where the white man does not rob or injure the 
natives there is something in his attitude when he finds 
himself among an uncivilized people that is harsh 
and unchristian. He acts toward them as if they 
were persons to whom he can do whatever he likes. 
Those who have travelled among savages or semi- 
savages will know what I mean when I say that it 
takes almost the temper of a saint to keep the white 
man from treating with arrogance or scorn a people 
who are very much weaker than himself and who fre- 
quently provoke him by an astonishing slackness or 
thoughtlessness or inconstancy of purpose. Nothing 
but a sense of human duty, and Christian duty can 
prevent a man from acting harshly or unfairly when 
he is placed in such conditions. No doubt the natives 
often give provocation. In parts of Australia and in 
Tierra del Fuego they stole the sheep that had been 
placed upon the lands that once were theirs. But this 
does not excuse the settlers who went out in parties 
to shoot them down. 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 143 

This behaviour and this attitude of the stronger 
white race have been among the chief obstacles to 
the advance of Christianity. 

There were times when the governments of so- 
called Christian states themselves were little better 
than the adventurers who disgraced the Christian 
name. The long perpetuation, by the favour of 
such governments, of the African slave trade, the 
most hideous piece of cruelty and wrong ever per- 
petrated by civilized upon uncivilized men, is a terri- 
ble instance. It has been only in the last sixty or 
seventy years that these governments have awakened 
to a proper sense of their duties. Most of them have 
latterly tried, and are now honestly trying, to protect 
the natives. This is not yet the case in all parts of the 
world. There are one or two lamentable exceptions. 
But it is the case wherever either the United States or 
Great Britain holds sway. Your government and the 
British government are doing their best wherever their 
flags fly to protect the native in every way they can. 
In India it has been for a century past the sole and 
whole-hearted object of the English government to 
administer absolutely equal justice in India between 
the European and the native and to give the native as 
complete a protection and as good a government as 
the circumstances of the country will permit. 

But even where the government performs its duty 
it is possible for the private adventurer, or the trading 
corporation behind the private adventurer that sup- 



144 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

plies the funds and does not watch how the adventurer 
behaves, to do a great deal of harm. They it is who 
discredit Christianity. While the missionary is preach- 
ing, the adventurer goes on cheating the native or oust- 
ing him from his land, sometimes even forcing him into 
a sort of slavery, and punishing him if he fails to 
fulfil the allotted task, and the trading company at 
home draws the profits. The temptations to abuse 
strength have been great and have been yielded to. 
No wonder that these things checked the advance 
of Christianity. No wonder that it spread more 
rapidly while adversity and persecution gave it 
the opportunity to show the distinctively Christian 
virtues of faith, constancy, humility, and love than it 
did when all the powers of this earth were on its side, 
that it advanced faster against the hostility of Roman 
emperors like Nero, Decius, and Diocletian than it 
has advanced with all the strength of civilization behind 
it. It is not that any power has gone out of the gospel ; 
it is not that the best men in Christian nations were 
any less zealous ; but other men went on undoing the 
missionary's work all the time he was preaching. 

If this be true, what is the duty of Christian men 
to-day? That duty certainly is not to ask govern- 
ments to spread the gospel by force. No more action 
like that of the Spaniards who carried the scourge and 
the sword while the friars carried the crucifix. You 
do not believe that the blessing of God will rest upon 
such methods. 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 145 

Neither do you desire that governments should 
give any political support to missionaries. The more 
that missions are kept apart from political authori- 
ties and left to rely on themselves, the better. What 
you do desire is to strengthen the hands of the civ- 
ilized governments when they try to secure for the 
native justice, considerate treatment, full protection 
against the craft or violence of the adventurer. 

It is in your power to do that. Public opinion can 
strengthen the hands of the governments; it can 
encourage each government to lay down and carry out 
rules for the due protection of the native. We all know 
that the United States government desired to carry 
out honestly and hi the right spirit such a policy 
even when the Red Indians were being defrauded of 
their lands or of the supplies given them. Your 
national government always meant to do right, though 
it was not always able to supervise its agents. 

We in Britain wish to do the same; and we are 
always appealing to our government and assuring them 
that they will have and do now have the spirit of the 
British public behind them in endeavouring to protect 
the native. And if there are still parts of the world 
in which the natives are to-day ill treated, let us 
trust that the public opinion of America and of Eng- 
land will speak out and will demand that the native 
races everywhere be duly cared for and delivered from 
oppression. 

Your duty does not end with subscribing to the mis- 



146 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

sionary societies. It requires you to watch wherever 
over the world the advance of Christianity is being 
hindered by the wicked practices of white men to see 
that the adventurer and the trader are restrained if they 
wrong the natives by force or fraud, and absolutely to 
prohibit the sale of liquor to the natives. The natives 
ought to be regarded as children, and have the measure 
both of care and of tenderness which is given to chil- 
dren, for under the conditions in which their life has 
been passed, they cannot be expected to rise quickly 
to the level of civilized man. 

This brings me to the other point which I desire. 

The position is now becoming critical. You are 
often told and you are told with truth that this 
is a critical time for civilized countries. It is a time 
when there are all sorts of new ideas hi the air, a time 
when many ancient landmarks have been removed, and 
when efforts are being made to remove even those that 
remain. In this country you are receiving vast new 
masses of population. In the Old World new social 
and political movements have begun to stir up even 
the hitherto most stagnant countries. But if you 
look beyond Europe and America, at what is pass- 
ing among the savage or semi-civilized races of man- 
kind, and note the changes which have come upon 
them within the last fifty years and which are tell- 
ing upon them now, you will perceive that this is 
perhaps the most critical moment ever seen in the 
history of the non-Christian nations and races, a mo- 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 147 

ment most significant in its bearing on their future. 
The races of European origin have now obtained con- 
trol of the whole world (except two or three ancient 
Asiatic states, and their influence, political and financial 
is felt far more deeply than ever before even in those 
parts of the world over which they do not exercise direct 
political sway. 

While our material civilization is permeating every 
people, our ideas and the example of our institutions 
are also telling as never before upon these more back- 
ward races. In half a century or less that which we call 
European civilization will have overspread the earth and 
extinguished the organizations and customs of the 
savage and semi-civilized tribes or nations. The native 
tribes will have been broken up, native kingdoms will 
have vanished, native customs will have gone ; every- 
where the white man will have established his influence 
and destroyed the old native ways of life. All is 
trembling and crumbling away under the shock and 
impact of the stronger, harder civilization which the 
white foreigners, penetrating everywhere by our easier 
methods of transportation by land and sea, have brought 
with them. Things which have endured from the Stone 
Age until now are at last coming to a perpetual end, 
and will be no more. They will vanish from the face 
of the earth. This is something that has never hap- 
pened before and can never happen again. 

When all these savage and semi-civilized peoples 
have lost their ancient organizations, their ancient 



148 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

customs and their ancient beliefs, they will, along with 
these things, lose also their ancient morality, such 
as it was, which had its sanctions in those customs 
and beliefs. If you destroy these, their morality falls 
to the ground and is gone, and they are left with noth- 
ing, adrift upon a wide and shoreless sea. You may 
say that their customs were often bad, their morality 
often immorality. That is true. Much of it ought 
to disappear. Yet with all its tolerance of vice and 
all its degrading practices, it had in some ways a 
certain beneficial action upon their conduct. Its 
sanctions exercised some control for good. It fur- 
nished a basis for the conduct of life better than the 
mere unrestrained impulse to the gratification of every 
passion and desire. It prescribed some kinds of virtu- 
ous actions, such as good faith (at least with one an- 
other), mutual help in times of want, hospitality, and 
compassion for the helpless. There are savage peo- 
ples who have these virtues, and they were inter- 
twined with supernatural sanctions which are now 
perishing. 

The process of destruction and disintegration which 
I have described is inevi table, and it is advancing 
swiftly. If we measure time by the lifetime of a man, 
the end may seem still distant, but we can begin to 
conjecture the date of its arrival. Already there are 
hardly any heathen left in the two American con- 
tinents (though there are millions of aborigines who 
are not Christians in any effective sense), and hardly 



MISSIONS PAST AND PRESENT 149 

any in the isles of the Pacific. Only in India and the 
East Indian archipelago, and in South Central Africa 
and parts of West Africa do there remain any large 
masses of idolatrous or spirit- worshipping men. Within 
less than two centuries the whole non-Christian 
world may be practically divided between Buddhism 
and Islam, and although the latter of those two 
great faiths is still spreading in parts of Africa and 
Asia, the hold of both upon their votaries may by 
that time have been sensibly weakened. 

That is why the present moment is so critical and 
so precious. If these peoples are losing the old cus- 
toms and beliefs which have ruled them thus far, the 
time has come to give them something new and bet- 
ter. Unless they receive some new moral basis of 
life, some beliefs and motives and precepts which 
can appeal to their hearts and rule their conduct, can 
restrain bad impulses, and instil worthy conceptions 
of life and duty and worship, their last 'state may 
be worse than the first. Having overspread the world, 
and taken these weaker races under our control, we 
cannot evade the responsibility that lies upon us to 
think and to care for them. It was at the prompt- 
ing of our own interests that we of the white races 
disturbed their ancient ways of life, for we went 
among them, some few doubtless with a desire to do 
good, but the great majority from a desire to make 
money and to exploit the world's resources for profit 
of the white man. Under the aegis of his govern- 



150 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

ment, he is taking the agricultural wealth from the soil, 
the forests from the hills, and the minerals out of the 
rocks, all for his own benefit. Of all this wealth noth- 
ing, except perhaps a meagre wage for manual labour, 
goes to the native. 

The power of civilized man has too often come as 
a crushing force in a destroying hand. Let the gospel 
of Christ come to these races, the old foundations 
of whose life are crumbling away beneath them, 
not as the mere nominal profession of those who 
are grasping their land and trying to profit by 
their toil, but accompanied by justice and tender- 
ness in action, and recommended by example as well 
as by precept. Let it come as a beneficent power 
which can fill their hearts with new thoughts and new 
hopes, which may become a link between them and 
ourselves, averting that strife and suffering which will 
otherwise follow, and leading them gently forward into 
the light. Let it be a bond between all races of man- 
kind of whatever blood, or speech, or colour, a sacred 
bond to make them feel and believe that they and we 
are all the children of one Father in heaven. 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS TO THE UNIVERSITY OP WISCONSIN AT 
MADISON, JUNE, 1908. 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS TO THE UNIVERSITY or WISCONSIN AT 
MADISON, JUNE, 1908. 

THIS University of Wisconsin in which we are met 
stands by common consent in the front rank among the 
State Universities of the United States. It is younger 
than some of them, but inferior to none in the width 
of its curriculum and the ability of its staff, and it is 
perhaps more conspicuously identified then any other 
with the political life of the State. This is therefore 
a fitting place in which one who delivers a Commence- 
ment Address may choose for his theme the various 
origins from which universities have sprung, the 
various forms in which they have organized themselves, 
and the peculiar features and functions which belong 
to the American State Universities, that "latest birth 
of time." 

A university is, in its simplest form, nothing more 
than an aggregation of teachers and learners. It 
was in that way that the earliest universities of modern 
Europe began. Salerno, Bologna, Paris, were the 
first cities in which crowds of learners gathered round 
a few eminent teachers of medicine (in the first), of law 
(in the second), of theology and dialectics (in the third). 
Such too were the beginnings of Oxford and Cambridge. 

153 



154 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

In each of those trading towns situated upon rivers, 
then the chief avenues of commerce, a concourse of 
students formed itself round a few learned men, and 
presently grew to vast dimensions. These universities 
were not founded by any public authority, but founded 
themselves, springing up naturally out of the desire 
for knowledge ; and hence we in England describe our 
two Universities of Oxford and Cambridge as being 
"corporations at common law," i.e. deriving their 
legal quality as corporate bodies from ancient custom 
which antedates the time of legal memory. The same 
thing had happened in the Eastern World. Where Is- 
lam reigned, schools sprang up in the great mosques like 
that famous one of El Azhar in Cairo which still draws 
thousands of students of all ages from all parts of the 
Musulman world. Later on in the Middle Ages 
sovereigns began to establish such places of learning. 
The Emperor Frederick II set up one at Naples in 
A.D. 1225, Pope Gregory IX another at Toulouse in 
1233. The first in the Germanic Empire was that of 
Prague, founded by Pope Clement VI and Emperor 
Charles the Fourth in 1347-1348 ; and others followed, 
such as that famous school at Heidelberg which the 
Elector Palatine Rupert, and Pope Urban VI at his 
request, set up hi 1386. 

Popes had also assumed the right of founding uni- 
versities, and with good right, because their ecclesias- 
tical jurisdiction embraced all Europe, and they were 
called upon to see that a due supply both of trained 



155 

theologians and trained lawyers was always forth- 
coming. In Scotland the Universities of Glasgow and 
Aberdeen, for instance, were founded by papal bulls, 
but when after the breach between England and 
Rome Queen Elizabeth desired to create a university 
in Ireland she did it herself by a royal charter. In 
modern Europe, since the conception has grown up 
that a university is an institution entitled to grant 
degrees, and since degrees themselves have obtained 
more or less legal recognition, it is now understood 
that nothing less than some public authority, such as 
either a royal grant or a statute, can create a univer- 
sity. It is thus that the eight new universities re- 
cently established, and the most recent of them per- 
haps too hastily established, in England, viz., London, 
Durham, Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, Birmingham^ 
Sheffield, and Bristol, have been constituted. 

Here in the United States you have allowed the 
widest freedom, so colleges and universities, great and 
small, have sprung up all over the country in a crop 
almost too abundant. Harvard and Yale were the 
foundations of private benefactors, though their States 
subsequently aided them. Many other colleges owe 
their origin to religious denominations. But the most 
interesting, and certainly the most peculiar and char- 
acteristically American, type has been that of the uni- 
versity founded and supported and governed by the 
State. 

Before proceeding to consider how this scheme of 



156 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

State support and control has worked, let me try to 
give you a brief view of the universities of the three 
countries whose conditions and ideas most resemble 
yours in America. I mean Germany, England, and 
Scotland, countries in each of which the university 
has played a great part and has not only illustrated 
the character of the nation but done much to form that 
character. 

The universities of Germany have, during the last 
seventy years, led the world in the completeness of 
their teaching organization, in the amplitude of the 
provision of instruction in every branch of knowledge 
which they make, and in the services they render to 
the prosecution of research. In these respects they 
have set an example to the world, an example whose 
value is recognized in the United States, from which so 
many students have gone to Germany. The level of 
learning among the teachers, taken as a whole, is per- 
haps higher than anywhere else : and it is to the en- 
ergy of these teachers that we must largely ascribe that 
completeness with which special training has been 
brought to bear upon every department of practical 
life hi Germany, upon private business in production 
and distribution no less than upon all kinds of admin- 
istrative work. A control is exercised over the univer- 
sities by the government which you here and we hi 
England might think excessive, but in practice it does 
not seem to be harmful, for public opinion practically 
secures freedom of teaching and relieves the professors 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 157 

from undue interference. The tradition of respect for 
the great seats of learning, strong in the minds of the 
German bureaucracy, who have all been educated there, 
is found to act as an efficient protection. Indeed, the 
whole nation cares for the universities, is proud of the 
universities, recognizes, as perhaps no other nation has 
ever done, the value for practical life of full knowledge 
and exact training, so that everything is done which 
money and organizing skill can do to maintain the in- 
stitutions of learning and teaching at the highest level 
of efficiency. Nor must I forget to add that the uni- 
versities have another claim on the affection of the 
German people in the fact that when, after the battle 
of Jena in 1806, North Germany lay for a tune pros- 
trate at the feet of a foreign conqueror, it was in the 
universities that the patriotic national spirit found its 
surest home, and it was among their professors and 
students that the movement began which culminated 
in the liberation of the German fatherland. 

The universities of England and here I speak 
chiefly of Oxford and Cambridge, as the oldest and by 
far the most characteristic educational product of 
English soil belong to a different type. Although 
the great scientific discoveries of the last centuries are 
due to British more than to any other discoverers, 
these universities have not in recent years contributed 
so largely to original research either in natural science 
or in the human subjects as have their sisters in Ger- 
many. They are far less completely organized for the 



158 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

purposes of instruction. They do not educate so large 
a proportion of the people. They have been, since the 
Reformation, for the most part places of resort for the 
upper and middle classes, and it is only within the last 
thirty years that they began to be rendered easily ac- 
cessible to the promising and diligent youth of the 
poorer sections of society. But they have had several 
conspicuous merits which are specially their own. 
Their ideal has been to give not so much an education 
qualifying a man to succeed in any particular walk of 
life as that general education which will fit him to be a 
worthy member of church and commonwealth. They 
have sought to develop men as men, to shape and 
polish a completely harmonious and well-rounded in- 
tellect and character, a personality in whom all facul- 
ties have been cultivated and brought as nearly as may 
be to a symmetrical completeness. And in aiming at 
this, they have thought not only of learning or of the 
powers of the speculative intellect, but also of the apti- 
tudes which find their scope in practical life, and which 
enable a man to work usefully with other men and to 
exercise a wholesome influence in his community. Ox- 
ford and Cambridge have long been closely associated 
with the public life of the nation. In the eighteenth 
and nineteenth centuries nearly all of those who 
reached high eminence as statesmen were their 
alumni, and gratefully acknowledged how much they 
owed to the Alma Mater. That which they did owe 
was not always learning nor even the power of ready 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 159 

and finished speech, a power which must always count 
for much in the political life of a free country. It was 
perhaps rather the knowledge of human nature, the tact 
and judgment, the sense of honour and comradeship 
which daily social intercourse in the colleges of these 
universities tended to form. In these colleges there 
are twenty-two in Oxford and nineteen in Cambridge 
there is a sort of domestic life which brings the 
students into close touch with one another. The 
undergraduates dine together in the same college hall 
along with the graduate members of the college who 
are the teachers. They worship in the same college 
chapel. They have their sports together, each col- 
lege with its cricket team and its racing boats on the 
river. The opportunities for forming friendships are 
unrivalled, and thus it comes to pass that those who 
remember Oxford and Cambridge say that they learnt 
as much from one another as they did from their pro- 
fessors and tutors. Moreover, the domestic arrange- 
ments of our English college life create a more easy 
and familiar intercourse between the teachers, espe- 
cially the younger ones, and the undergraduates than 
exists anywhere else. The undergraduate students 
are the friends of their teachers, living with them on 
an equality which is of course tempered by the respect 
due to age and experience. It is a pleasant relation, 
good for the older and the younger alike. Thus has 
there been created in Oxford and Cambridge that 
impalpable thing which we call an Atmosphere, an 



160 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

intellectual and social tone which forms manners and 
refines taste, and strengthens characters by traditions 
inherited from a long and splendid past. 

The four universities of Scotland are very different 
from the English, and rather resemble the universities 
of Germany. Though far less completely equipped 
than are the latter, for Scotland has been a com- 
paratively poor country, they have always given a 
high quality of instruction, and produced a large 
number of remarkable men. There are no residential 
colleges like those of England, so the undergraduates 
live in lodgings, where they please, and thus there is 
less of social student life. But the instruction is 
stimulating; and the undergraduates, being mostly 
poor men, and coming of a diligent and aspiring stock, 
are more generally studious and hard-working and 
self-reliant than are those of Oxford and Cambridge. 
Within the last twenty years women have been ad- 
mitted to the classes, and that which was deemed an 
experiment is pronounced to be a success. 

Last, I come to your own universities. Whereas the 
universities of Germany have been popular but not 
free, and those of England free but not popular, yours, 
like those of Scotland, are both popular and free. 
Their doors are open to every one, and every one 
enters. They are untrammeled by any religious or 
political prejudices, even when they are associated with 
a particular denomination, and they have been, with 
comparatively few exceptions, managed without any 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 161 

intrusion of political influences. Many of them 
allow the student a wider choice among subjects of 
study and leave him in other ways more free to do as 
he pleases than is the case in any other institutions in 
the English-speaking world. 

Nor is it only that your universities are accessible 
to all classes. They have achieved what has never 
been achieved before, they have led all classes of the 
people to believe in the value of university education 
and wish to attain it. They have made it seem a 
necessary part of the equipment of every one who 
can afford the time to take it. In England, and indeed 
in Europe generally, such an education has been a 
luxury for the ordinary man, though it may have been 
reckoned almost a necessity for those who are entering 
on one of the distinctively "learned professions." But 
here it is deemed a natural preparation for a business 
life also; and the proportion of business men who have 
studied at some university is far larger in the United 
States than in any other country. 

However, it was of your State universities only that 
I meant to speak, because they are the newest, the most 
peculiar, and the most interesting product of American 
educational zeal. They are a remarkable expression 
of the spirit which has latterly come to pervade this 
country, that the functions of government may be 
usefully extended to all sorts of undertakings for the 
public benefit which it was formerly thought better 
to leave to private enterprise. The provision of ele- 



162 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

mentary education was indeed long ago assumed by 
the State, because it was deemed necessary that those 
who vote as citizens should possess the rudiments of 
knowledge. But in going on to found and support 
and manage institutions supplying the higher forms of 
education at a low or merely nominal charge, you of 
the American West went further than any other com- 
munities in the English-speaking world. The same 
principle has guided several of your States, and this 
State in particular, in so enlarging the range of uni- 
versity action as to bring it into direct contact with 
the schools and the people through systems of lectures 
and correspondence and through the multiform activ- 
ities of the agricultural department. The greatest asset 
of a community is the energy and intelligence of its 
members. Your citizens have the energy and you feel 
it to be " good business " to develop their native intel- 
ligence by the completest education they can desire. 

In committing yourselves to this principle you here 
in the West seem to have returned to that conception 
of the functions of the State which prevailed in the 
Greek republics of antiquity, where it was denned as 
"a partnership of men in the highest social life," and 
you have abandoned that laissez-faire doctrine gen- 
erally held seventy years ago which regarded the gov- 
erning power in a community as established mainly 
for the purpose of maintaining civil order within and 
providing for defence against external foes, and held 
that to go further than this was to weaken or to tram- 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 163 

mel individual initiative and to interfere with the 
generally beneficent working of the natural forces 
that guide social progress. Whether this reversal of 
policy was needed in order to give energy and inde- 
pendence their fair chance, for, as J. S. Mill observed, 
it is even more fatal to exertion to have no hope of 
succeeding by it than to be assured of succeeding 
without it, and whether the doctrine of Greece and 
Wisconsin or the doctrine of the physiocrats and 
Benthamites will prove in the long run to be the best 
for the stimulation of inventive thought and enterprise 
and for the general advance of the community, is a 
question I will not stop to discuss. This at least may 
be said, that this particular form of State intervention 
which the new principle has taken in the West has the 
merit of associating all the citizens in a direct and 
personal way with the university, making them feel it 
to be their creation, arousing the liberality of the leg- 
islature to it, and giving the whole State an interest in 
its prosperity and efficiency. 

There are, however, two risks incident to popularly 
managed governmental control of all institutions of 
teaching and learning, against which it is well to be 
forewarned. Although neither you nor your sister 
State universities may have yet encountered them, 
they may some day threaten you, for popular manage- 
ment is no guarantee against their appearance. 

One of these is the possibility that a legislature, or a 
governing authority appointed by a legislature, may 



1 64 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

carry politics into academical affairs, as politics have 
been sometimes carried into those affairs in parts of the 
European Continent where the university is an organ 
of the State. Freedom is the life-blood of university 
teaching. Neither the political opinions of a professor, 
nor the character of the economic doctrines which he 
holds and propagates, ought to be a ground for appoint- 
ing or dismissing him, nor ought he to be any less free 
to speak and vote as he pleases than any other citizen. 
And though it is right and fitting that the State 
should be represented in the governing authority 
of a university which it supports, experience seems to 
have proved that both the educational policy and the 
daily administration and discipline of a university 
ought as far as possible to be either left in academic 
hands or entrusted to an authority on which the 
academic element predominates. 

The other risk is one to which in our time most 
universities are exposed, and State universities per- 
haps even more than others. The progress of natural 
science has been so rapid, the results obtained by the 
application of science to all forms of industry and 
to many forms of commercial exchange, have been 
so wonderful, the eagerness of every man to amass 
wealth and of every nation to outstrip its rivals in 
commerce and material progress is so keen, that the 
temptation to favour at the expense of other branches 
of instruction those branches from which pecuniary 
gain may be expected has become unusually strong. 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 165 

It is a temptation felt everywhere, in Europe hardly 
less than here. We constantly hear men who are ready 
to spend money freely on the so-called practical 
branches of study, such as mining, agriculture, and 
electrical engineering, disparage the study of theo- 
retical science as unprofitable, while they seek to 
eliminate altogether the so-called "humanistic" sub- 
jects, such as philology, history, and philosophy. 

This is a grave error. In the physical sciences the 
discoveries of most practical importance have sprung 
out of investigations undertaken purely for the sake 
of knowledge, without any notion of those applications 
to the industries and arts which were to be their ulti- 
mate results. These it would indeed have been im- 
possible to foresee. All we know of electricity, of those 
chemical effects of light which have led to photography, 
of those properties of certain rays in the spectrum 
which have proved capable of being turned to such 
admirable account in surgery, was discovered in the 
pursuit of abstract science by men who were not think- 
ing of practice or gain and most of whom gained little 
except fame from their discoveries. None of them 
dreamed that the telegraph and the dynamo would 
issue from their experiments any more than Napier 
when he invented logarithms, or Newton and Leibnitz 
when they gave us the differential calculus, were 
thinking of how much these improved mathematical 
methods would help the engineer in his calculations. 
All sound practice must be rooted in sound theory, and 



1 66 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the scientific thinking that leads to discovery must 
begin in the theoretic field. Whatever a nation 
achieves, whatever a university achieves, is the result 
of patient observation, close reasoning, and, let me 
add, of the love of knowledge for its own sake ; for 
the man who is bent only on finding what is pecuni- 
arily profitable will miss many a path at the end of 
which there stands the figure of Truth, with all the 
rewards she has to bestow. Just as any nation which 
should force its children to narrow their energies to 
purely gainful aims would soon fall behind its com- 
petitors, and see its intellectual life fade and wither, so 
any university which sacrificed its teaching of the the- 
ory of science to the teaching of the practical applica- 
tions of science would be unworthy of its high calling 
and would handle even the practical part of its work 
less effectively. The loss of a high ideal means the 
loss of aspiration, of faith, of vital force. 

In no country are these things better understood 
than in Germany, to which I refer because she has 
achieved so much in the extension of her commerce 
and her industry. No country has been more suc- 
cessful in the application of science to the arts, and in 
none has the need for a wide foundation of abstract 
scientific teaching been more fully recognized. 

The planting and the development of these State 
Universities and the hold they have acquired upon the 
people of the State, are among the most cheering evi- 
dences of the wisdom and capacity for good work of 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 167 

your new democracies. They have their defects, but 
they are filled by the desire to help the common man 
onward and upward, and to help him in the best way 
by providing him with the amplest measure of knowl- 
edge and mental training so that he may know how 
to help himself. The peoples of the Western States, 
most of whom have had no college teaching themselves, 
show their sense of the worth of learning and culture 
by the liberality with which they support these insti- 
tutions and the pride they feel in their prosperity. 

These States have made you, the professors and 
students of their universities, their debtors. How can 
you repay that debt, and what service can you, some of 
you as professors remaining here, others as youthful 
graduates going out into the world, render to your States 
in return ? In order to answer this question, let me 
first ask another. What is it that the graduate has 
received ? What does he carry away with him as the 
fruit of the days of study here ? What will he remem- 
ber forty years hence as the best things his university 
has done for him? If I may judge of what you will 
then feel from what I and my own contemporaries 
feel as we look back, through a vista of more than 
fifty years, to our happy Oxford days, you will then 
say that your university bestowed on you two gifts of 
supereminent value. 

One was Friendships. The opportunities for mak- 
ing congenial friendships are ampler in college life than 
ever afterwards. Besides the familiar intercourse of 



1 68 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the class room, and on the campus, and wherever stu- 
dents meet together, the acquiring of knowledge hi 
company is itself a foundation for sympathy. Joint 
study becomes a bond. To have the same tastes, 
to enjoy the same books, to work side by side in the 
laboratory, to help one another hi difficulties, to argue 
out one's differences of opinions, to be inspired by the 
same ideals and confide them to one another, these are 
the means by which young men best enter into one 
another's hearts and hopes, and form ties, which, last- 
ing as long as life itself, may be a source of joy until 
the end. 

The other gift was the delight in Knowledge, a 
sense of how much there is to be known, of the vast 
horizon that is ever widening as one goes on learning, 
of how with each one of us the enlargement of per- 
sonal knowledge seems only to enlarge the sense of the 
regions of mystery beyond that horizon. With this 
delight there goes also a perception of the invaluable 
help which real knowledge, accurate, thorough, duly 
arranged and systematized, can render to each man 
and each community in dealing with the facts of every 
situation. And with the joy hi knowledge there ought 
to go, and in the minds of all who really enjoy knowl- 
edge there will go, the love of Truth. Devotion to 
truth, loyalty to truth under all temptations, is the in- 
tellectual conscience of the man of learning and the 
man of science; and to create it is the chief aim for 
the sake of which universities exist. If your univer- 



THE MISSION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES 169 

sity teaching and life have not taught you that, they 
have left the main thing undone. 

Is there then not a way in which you as university 
men going out into the world can repay to your Alma 
Mater and to your State the debt you owe them? 
We live in an age when difficulties thicken upon us, 
when, in spite of the dissatisfaction so frequently ex- 
pressed with the existing methods of government, new 
work is being constantly thrust upon governments, 
when the strife of labor and capital and the social un- 
rest that growls and mutters all around us make it at 
once more necessary to determine what justice requires 
and harder to persuade any section of the community 
to recede from its claims. Never was there a more 
urgent need either for applying every kind of knowl- 
edge to the solution of these problems, or for trying 
to seek the solution in a spirit free from all prejudice 
or bias. Your university studies have taught you 
both to realize the worth of thorough and systema- 
tized knowledge and to moderate the vehemence of 
partisanship by a disinterested devotion to truth. 
Thus you can contribute to the community of which 
you are citizens three things. One is the spirit of 
progress, which is hopeful because it is always seeking 
to better things by knowledge and skill. Another is 
the spirit of moderation, cautious because it resists 
the temptations of party passion, or the impulse, often 
honest enough, to grasp at the first hasty expedient for 
removing admitted evils without considering whether 



170 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

that may not involve other evils just as great. And 
the third is the love of truth, which, when it is strong 
enough, will help a man to overcome the promptings 
of personal ambition or the baser lures which the 
power of selfish wealth can offer. 

It has sometimes been claimed for the University 
that it is the mind of the State, or at least the organ 
which the State may employ to examine and think 
out the problems the State has to deal with. That 
may be too large a claim. But I am speaking now 
not so much of the university as a body of men 
organized in an institution dedicated to teaching 
and research but rather of those children of the uni- 
versity who go forth from it into the world, preserving 
the real academic spirit through the whole of their busi- 
ness or professional careers, furnishing skilled leaders 
in political and social movements, and forming the pub- 
lic opinion of the whole community by which nation and 
State, more truly here in America than anywhere else 
in the world, are led and ruled. Upon these citizens 
comes with special force the call to translate into real- 
ity that noble ideal of an educated democracy, reason- 
able and just because it is educated, which the people 
of America have long ago set up for themselves, and 
towards which, through many obstacles, they are stead- 
ily and surely moving. 



THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 

ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS AT 
WASHINGTON, DECEMBER ISTH, 1908. 



THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 

ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS AT 
WASHINGTON, DECEMBER ISTH, 1908. 

MY only justification for appearing here to say a 
few words in honor of the illustrious artist you are 
met to commemorate is the fact that Augustus Saint- 
Gaudens was born hi Ireland and of an Irish mother. 
I will not dispute with my friend and colleague the 
Ambassador of France how much of his artistic genius 
is due to Ireland, and whether it bears the stamp of the 
Gallo-Roman branch or of the Gaelic branch of the 
Celtic race. But all of it that can be deemed possibly 
attributable to Ireland I am going to claim for Ireland, 
and that for a special reason. Ireland has, as all the 
world knows, given to the British Isles, and also to 
this country, a great number of men famous in litera- 
ture, famous in science, famous in war, famous in gov- 
ernment. What would you have done in the United 
States without Irishmen to manage your affairs of 
State ? But in proportion to the genius her children 
have shown in other directions, Ireland has given to 
the Fine Arts, as even her admirers must admit, com- 
paratively few men of first-rate eminence, and this is 
the more remarkable because the ancient Celtic work 

173 



174 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of the churches and monumental crosses of Ireland is 
full of richness and beauty. So desiring to secure for 
my island all the artistic honours possible, I must claim 
Saint-Gaudens for it. I had intended to have dwelt 
upon the inspiration which he derived in his early 
years in Dublin from the picturesque and romantic 
scenery which surrounds that ancient city, but, unfor- 
tunately, I committed the fault unpardonable in a 
man with some experience in these matters, and a fault 
which I hereby warn you against of trying to verify 
my facts by reference to the original authorities, and I 
found that Saint-Gaudens quitted Dublin at the age 
of six months. So I must fall back upon that native 
quality which he drew from his Irish mother. 

I will not attempt, after what has been said by 
previous speakers, and especially after that analysis of 
his genius, at once vigorous and delicate, which was 
given by the President of the United States, to fix the 
place which Saint-Gaudens holds among those who 
have adorned the splendid art of sculpture, an art 
which has, ever since the great Italian masters died 
out nearly four centuries ago, held in the field of mod- 
ern achievement a place that seems small when we com- 
pare it with that supremacy yielded to it hi the artistic 
production of the ancient world, and which it almost 
regained in Italy during the fourteenth and fifteenth 
centuries. Among those men who stand preeminent 
in sculpture since the death of Michael Angelo, the 
highest renown seems to have fallen to the Italian 



THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 175 

Canova and the Icelander Thorwaldson, and it came 
to these two not so much through any new creative 
quality they revealed in plastic work or any personal 
originality that shone out in their own conceptions, as 
by the fact that they reproduced the kind of beauty 
and the type of artistic thought which inspired the 
art of the Greeks. Thus admirable as is the genius of 
both, they seem to us to be revivifying, so far as 
moderns can, the manner of Greece rather than to 
have renewed those traditions of the grand style of the 
Renaissance whose latest expressions are to be found 
in the marvellous figures of the Laurentian chapel at 
Florence and in those which stand around the tomb 
of the Emperor Maximilian at Innsbruck. 

Without venturing into the dangerous field of theoriz- 
ing about art or attempting to indicate the elements 
that go to the making of its highest forms, I suppose 
we may all agree in thinking that there are in 
sculpture three more or less distinctive kinds of excel- 
lence. There is the excellence which consists in the 
faithful reproduction of nature; there is the excel- 
lence hi which we admire pure beauty of form and 
line ; and there is the excellence which makes its 
special appeal to the imagination of the beholder be- 
cause it proceeds from the imagination of the artist 
himself. When he has the power of speaking to our 
intellect and emotions straight out of his own mind, 
he enables us to realize not only how the subject 
presented itself to his thought, but what was really 



176 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the deepest and most essential thing in his subject 
itself. If the subject be a person, he reveals the in- 
nermost nature of the man portrayed. If it is a scene , he 
brings out the true and permanent meaning it will have 
for the long Hereafter. To possess any one of these ex- 
cellences in high measure is to be great. To possess 
all three in such measure is to attain perfection. Au- 
gustus Saint-Gaudens, we may probably agree, stood 
preeminent in the third. His highest gift was his power 
of imaginative conception. As all the great men 
that have left their mark in the world of affairs have been 
great by combining the power of thinking with energy, 
promptitude, and courage in action, so all the men that 
have been great in the fields of literature and art have 
been great by combining the power of thinking with the 
power of feeling, that is, the capacity of receiving and 
giving out an emotional impression. Now what most 
strikes us in Saint-Gaudens' works is that, whatever 
else we find, we find an intense and profound power of 
thinking combined with an equal power of feeling. 
Look around upon these works in this room. Does he 
not seem to you, whenever he approached a subject, 
be it a man or an incident, to have sat down and medi- 
tated, slowly and patiently, until he had discovered for 
himself exactly what lay at the foundation of the man's 
character or what it was that struck the deepest chord 
of human nature in the incident ? Then, pervaded 
by this thought, he set himself to represent and ex- 
press that which belonged to the man or to the inci- 



THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 177 

dent, and he did express it with an unerring accuracy 
and a rarely equalled power. This accuracy was due 
to his possessing, along with high ideals, a patience 
that grudged no pains. He kept some of his works 
for years in his studio after others had thought them 
complete, touching and retouching them till they were 
brought nearer to the standard of perfection he had 
set up. One of his disciples remembers a day when 
in modelling an arm for a figure he moulded and threw 
away more than twenty attempts to get in the clay 
exactly the shape and contour he desired. 

Think of any one of his greatest works. Look at 
that noble statue of President Lincoln in the park at 
Chicago, in which the grandeur of the man transforms 
and triumphs over all those difficulties and defects 
which the figure and the clothing presented and which 
might have appeared inconsistent with Hellenic ideas 
of beauty and grace. 

Think of that solemn and majestic figure of Sorrow 
in the Rock Creek Cemetery here at Washington 
which seems by mere form and posture to have suc- 
ceeded in expressing what has seldom been expressed 
by sculptor or painter, though the greatest masters of 
music have been able to express it through sound. It 
touches us like a requiem by Mozart or one of those 
pieces of Chopin in which the very soul of sadness 
seems to speak through the chords. 

Think of that infinitely pathetic figure of the young 
hero of New England, Robert Shaw, as you see him 



178 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

in the bas-relief on the border of Boston Common 
the young hero of New England riding calmly to his 
fate at the head of his soldiers, soldiers of another race 
just delivered from slavery. The shadow of death 
rests already upon him. 

Sed nox atra caput tristi circumvolat umbra. 1 

When you think of works like those, in which the 
loftiest imagination has been accompanied with the 
most finished grace of execution, you feel how great 
a genius it has been the privilege of your age to pos- 
sess in the artist whose memory we have met to 
honour. 

The danger or the weakness which is sometimes 
found to accompany this power of imaginative expres- 
sion is that it is apt to lapse into something extrava- 
gant or sensational. Nothing was farther from Saint- 
Gaudens. In that respect he had the balance and 
self-restraint, as well as the fine sense of beauty and 
measure, which belonged to his Greek masters. It is by 
that, we may believe, by the power of imaginative 
conception and expression, combined with calmness and 
self-restraint, that he will live in the admiring mem- 
ory of all who love and prize art in every country. 
Most of all will he live hi America, which did not, in- 
deed, give him birth, but which received him as a 
child, which helped him, which cherished him, which 
recognized his gifts as though he had been one of her 

1 Aeneid VI, of the young Marcdlus. 



THE ART OF AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS 179 

own children, which gave him those noble subjects from 
her own history with which his name will always be 
associated. He deserves to be remembered forever 
among you as one of the artistic glories of your 
country. 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 

ADDRESS AT A BANQUET OF THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHI- 
TECTS IN WASHINGTON, DECEMBER, 1908. 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 

ADDRESS AT A BANQUET OF THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHI- 
TECTS IN WASHINGTON, DECEMBER, 1908. 

MY first duty is to thank you for the way in which 
you have received the toast to which I am desired 
to respond. I was touched by the simple manner 
in which your President gave the toast, "The King." 
He gave it in the same way in which it might have 
been given in A.D. 1759 in the North American colonies, 
when all patriotic hearts were swelling with pride at 
the news of the victory won by Wolfe on the Plains of 
Abraham and the winning of all North America for the 
benefit of those colonies. A good deal of water has 
flowed under the bridges of the Potomac since 1759; but 
things have got back, so far as relates to spirit and sen- 
timent, to what they were just one hundred and fifty 
years ago, and I hope and believe that under this new 
order of things, when this gigantic Republic has for 
more than a century and a quarter managed its affairs 
in this continent in its own way, and when for nearly 
a century undisturbed peace has existed between Great 
Britain and the United States, the ties of sentiment, 
feeling, and affection which unite the two branches 
of the ancient stock are, and will remain, as deep and 

183 



1 84 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

as strong as ever they were in the days of political 
union. 

It is a pleasure to be the guest of the American 
Institute of Architects. I have always, as a humble 
layman, not understanding the principles and methods 
of the splendid art which you practise, but admiring its 
results, felt a very keen interest in your profession, 
and have thought it must be one of the most agreeable 
professions that a man could enter. There is, of course, 
one drawback connected with it that vexation which 
an architect must experience when his beautiful designs 
for a building, grand in its lines and refined in its 
ornament, are frustrated by the unresponsive taste- 
lessness and tame ideas of the person for whom the 
building is to be erected and who probably prefers 
internal comfort to external beauty. That must be 
often a source of sore disappointment to you. But 
after all, every profession has its drawbacks. Quisque 
suos patimur Manes. In my own profession, that of 
the law, it does sometimes happen that the most elo- 
quent speeches which are directed to secure the acquittal 
of a guilty man are neglected by a stupid jury. It does 
sometimes happen in the profession of medicine that a 
person whose malady has been pronounced incurable by 
a skilful practitioner subsequently recovers, and that 
his recovery is attributed not to the skill of the physician 
labouring against hope, but to the strength of the 
patient's constitution. It sometimes happens in the 
profession of the journalist that the efforts which the 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 185 

reporter who interviews a criminal makes to obtain 
absolute accuracy about the details of the crime are 
not successful, and that he does not even get credit 
for the strenuousness of those efforts. And I confess 
it is a serious drawback to the profession of the poli- 
tician and legislator that one-half of his tune and effort 
is apt to be spent, not in securing the passing of good 
laws, but in preventing the passing of those laws, be 
they good or bad, which the opposite party seeks to 
pass. 

You, gentlemen (I am reminded of this by my 
reference to the transitory character of a great deal of 
the work politicians do), have one satisfaction which 
belongs to you, as compared with some of those other 
professions I have referred to. It is this: You do attain 
a solid, visible, tangible result. You produce something. 
There is the building. It stands there for the world 
to look at, and for yourself to admire. It stands ; it 
continues to serve some useful purposes ; it is there as 
something definitely attained and effected; and if after 
some fifty or sixty years faults in the construction 
cause it perchance to totter and fall, by that tune it 
will have been forgotten who was the architect; and 
as for yourself, you will not suffer from any criticism, 
because you will be elsewhere, and will no doubt be 
enjoying a happiness sufficient to make you entirely 
indifferent to criticism. 

So I come back to the conclusion that you are, on 
the whole, fortunate in your profession. And you have 



1 86 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

one other great advantage. You are following a pro- 
fession, the study of which, pursued in an aesthetic as 
well as scientific spirit all your life through, and con- 
sisting largely in examining the masterpieces of archi- 
tecture that have been erected before our own time, 
and in our own time, is in itself altogether profitable 
and delightful. 

Now, I cannot honestly say that the whole of the 
study of the law is enjoyable. In every system of 
law there is much that is artificial. The system of pro- 
cedure is full of dreary technicalities which sometimes 
obstruct the march of justice. Statutes contain many 
arbitrary rules. There are cases which establish prece- 
dents that have to be followed because the decision was 
so given, although we think them opposed to sound prin- 
ciple. But you are not hampered in any such way. 
You have to follow principles based on science, and 
canons of taste which have been, for the most part, 
settled by the practice of the greatest among your 
predecessors, while nevertheless leaving ample scope for 
your own sense of beauty in their application to the ob- 
jects of the building and the conditions of the spot in 
which it is to be placed. A large part of your training 
consists in the study of the noblest works erected by 
men of genius in earlier times. In the study of those 
which remain from antiquity in Egypt, Greece, and 
Italy, and in the study of the far greater number pro- 
duced in the Middle Ages and during the Renaissance 
in many parts of Europe, you have an ever fresh 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 187 

and undiluted source of pleasure. I can remember no 
happier days than I have spent, and I am sure they 
would have been still more happy had it been my good 
fortune to possess a special and technical knowledge of 
your art, in examining and sometimes trying to 
sketch old churches and old castles and old city walls 
and municipal buildings and palaces, especially in the 
cities of Italy and Spain. One can hardly think of 
any higher or keener enjoyment than lies in seeing 
what man has done hi the effort to combine beauty 
and convenience in buildings meant to endure, and in 
following by the light of history the progress of archi- 
tecture from Greek and Roman days down to the 
eighteenth century, as one sees that progress in Italy, 
France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, and Britain. To 
this I may add that your art has a special claim upon 
all who love the past, because it is, more than any 
other art, the sister and interpreter of history. There 
is nothing that helps so much to a comprehension of 
history as the study of the buildings of a country. In 
them you see how men faced the conditions of their 
life ; you see exactly what they needed in the way of 
defence and in the way of comfort ; you see what form 
of structure and what internal arrangements the usages 
of religion prescribed for houses of worship ; you see 
by tracing the type of buildings in each particular prov- 
ince or district of a country what were the racial, politi- 
cal, and cultural influences that operated upon that 
district at the time when the building you are studying 



1 88 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

was erected ; and you are able, in a word, to make the 
buildings of a country illustrate its history and make 
its history explain the buildings. Someone ought to 
write a manual of travel for those who visit civilized 
countries, such as the Manual Francis Galton, compiled 
for explorers in wild countries thirty years ago; and 
in such a manual there might well be allotted to the 
elements of architectural history a chapter sufficiently 
full to enable an intelligent observer to find pleasure 
in the study of buildings as well as of Nature. It is a 
pleasure which has this advantage, that one can hunt 
up buildings both in city and in country, whereas in 
the city one can pursue no branch of natural his- 
tory other than the discovery of microbes. I doubt if 
there is anything which could be better done for a stu- 
dent of history than to send him on an architectural 
tour through France, for instance ; make him learn to 
comprehend the Northern, Eastern, and Southern types 
of building, and to distinguish between the subdivisions 
of these types, and to comprehend what were the influ- 
ences that gave one character to the churches of Lorraine 
or of Burgundy, let us say, and other characters to those 
of Provence or Aquitaine. How interesting it is to com- 
pare the Romanesque of Germany with the more gener- 
ally graceful Romanesque of France and the perhaps 
almost more perfect work of the same age in the 
churches of such a Spanish city as Avila. Everywhere 
the buildings interpret the age and the age interprets 
the buildings. 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 189 

When one thinks of all the exquisite monuments of 
architectural genius which adorn such a country as 
Italy or France, one has to remember that they repre- 
sent the accumulated ingenuity and skill and labour 
and taste of many generations of men. No one of 
those generations of men ever had such opportunities 
as architects both here and in England have during 
the last sixty years enjoyed. It is true that artistic 
designers of the last sixty years have not had quite so 
free a field as we assume that your predecessors had in 
the Renaissance, because they have been more ham- 
pered by committees, boards of trustees, municipal 
councils and other authorities who cannot realize, as 
did Lorenzo the Magnificent at Florence or King John 
III of Portugal, or other equally large-minded princes, 
that the great architect ought to have carte blanche 
for the building he has planned. But, except as re- 
spects that difficulty, you have enjoyed in this country, 
and in western Europe also, extraordinary opportunities 
during more than half a century of economic prosperity. 
Never, I suppose, was there a time when so many 
edifices, and so many large and important edifices, 
were erected, when there was so general an interest in 
building, and when so much money was lavishly 
spent in bricks and mortar. In England we de- 
veloped some seventy years ago a sudden access of 
zeal in ecclesiastical matters which not only covered 
the outskirts of our growing cities with new churches, 
but set people to the repairing of old churches. And I 



UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

grieve to have to confess that this zeal has in one way 
worked for evil rather than good. We have committed 
a crime which you here could not commit I hope 
that even if the opportunity had presented itself, you 
would not have committed it, but have resisted the 
temptation. Anyhow, the opportunity did not come to 
you ; and to us it did come, and we, purely from want 
of thought, yielded to the temptation. We have been 
restoring not only some of our cathedrals, but many of 
our ancient parish churches, of which there were 
more that had come down untouched from before 
the Reformation of the sixteenth century than any 
other country could boast, and having sometimes 
restored them almost out of recognition, we have un- 
fortunately obliterated a great deal of the history that 
was written in those churches. The same thing has 
happened in France, but not so widely, because not so 
much interest has been taken there in the parish 
churches. Some of the French cathedrals, however, 
have suffered more seriously than any English cathe- 
dral. The vast and splendid cathedral church of 
Perigueux, probably the grandest building of Byzantine 
character north of the Alps, has been so transformed 
by restoration that it is practically impossible to 
discover the features it had half a century ago. As 
regards England, it was not till after much irreparable 
harm had been done that between twenty and thirty 
years ago an enlightened band of scholars and artists, 
the most energetic and conspicuous of whom was 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 191 

the poet William Morris, took the field and exerted 
themselves to rouse the public and to stop, as far as 
possible, the process of transmogrifying an old church 
into something that was neither new nor old, but a hope- 
less jumble. The work of ruin has now been checked, 
but the harm already done is a calamity to weep over. 
Here you have not had ancient buildings to injure, and 
historical feeling has made you spare most of the build- 
ings that possessed any sort of interest and dated 
more than a century back. 

This, however, is a digression. I return to the main 
subject by observing that neither in England nor any- 
where in western Europe has full use been made of 
the opportunities for the display of original genius in 
architecture which the expenditure of vast sums of 
money on the erection of an immense number of build- 
ings provided. We have not succeeded there, nor any 
more do architects in Germany or France seem to have 
succeeded, in evolving anything that can be called a 
new style distinctive of our age. When we look back 
upon every century from the end of the eighteenth to 
the beginnings of the West European Romanesque type 
of building in the tenth or eleventh century, we see that 
the buildings of almost every age show something that 
is characteristic of the time, some forms which at once 
denote to us the date of the work. But if we look at 
the work of our own and of the last century and the 
same thing is as generally true in France and Germany 
as in Britain we see a motley array of all sorts of 



I 9 2 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

different styles, from the eleventh century to the eigh- 
teenth. I speak chiefly of ecclesiastical architecture, 
for of course in private residences and municipal 
buildings some styles are less convenient for practical 
purposes than others. Efforts are sometimes made 
to combine the features of different styles, but this 
eclecticism is seldom successful, and the total result 
in beautiful and impressive buildings is not worthy of 
the amount of knowledge and pains that has been 
devoted to the work as a whole and of the amount of 
money that has been spent upon it. Some fine things 
have been produced, but few in proportion to the 
whole. 

Neither have you here in the United States developed 
any characteristically American style of building since 
the so-called " colonial " type of pre-Revolutionary 
days. There is no style distinctive of the different 
sections of the country, except a few traces of Spanish 
work in Santa Fe (in New Mexico), and here and 
there in California, and a touch of French influence 
in the older parts of New Orleans. Nowhere in the 
western world does one find any parallel to the long 
architectural history of Europe or of India. Even 
in Spanish America, where people built from the first 
in stone, whereas your ancestors built in wood, there 
is little variety. Nearly all the churches and public 
buildings vary but little from the prevalent sixteenth 
century type which the Spaniards brought with them 
from Europe. Will this be always so, or will you of 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 193 

the New World, after two, three or four centuries, de- 
velop one or more styles characteristic of America, 
and offer to the historians of a still distant future a 
field of study like that which the Old World presents 
to us now ? 

Here in the United States you seem to have made 
one new departure in which you have gone ahead 
of us Europeans. Your designs for houses in cities, 
and perhaps even more for suburban houses and sea- 
side cottages, have more variety, more freshness, more 
charm than the designs of those descriptions have in 
most parts of Europe. You have certainly made more 
use in cities of some of the earlier mediaeval forms of 
architecture than we have succeeded in doing in Eng- 
land, and in that respect your recent work may 
show more originality than ours does. But still, you 
would probably agree that you have not yet succeeded 
either in inventing a new style, which perhaps may 
(for all we laymen know) be impossible, for, after 
all, the possibilities of invention are limited, or 
in so combining and harmonizing some of the features 
of different styles as to make one which shall be dis- 
tinctive of the nineteenth or twentieth century. Now 
that is just what the students of history would be now 
looking out for and longing for, if there were grounds 
for expecting it. Three or four hundred years hence, 
when the student follows the course of the develop- 
ment of architecture from the tenth century to his 
own time, he will find, as he descends the stream of 



194 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

time to the eighteenth, that there is a regular succes- 
sion of forms of construction and decoration, and that 
he can approximately fix the date of a building by its 
general style and structure as well as by its mouldings 
and its ornaments. But when he comes to the 
nineteenth century he would be completely at a loss. 
He will find that of three churches erected about the 
same time, one was designed to reproduce the style of 
the twelfth century, another that of the fifteenth, a 
third that of the seventeenth. So the historically 
minded layman feels, when he tries to project himself 
into the position of an historian living in the twenty- 
fourth century, that this latter would rejoice to be 
able to realize what the twentieth century had been 
doing through its buildings as we to-day realize what 
the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries did. 

There is, at any rate, a wide field still open in this 
country for inventive genius. You have had several 
architects of unquestioned genius, and will doubtless 
have more. Your wealth, the growth of your popula- 
tion, your noble contempt for expense, your bold- 
ness and grandeur of conception are known to all men 
on both sides of the Atlantic. 

The new Central Station at Washington, with its 
two long vaulted halls, is as fine as anything of the kind 
in Europe. Still vaster and more majestic are the halls 
of the station which the Pennsylvania railroad company 
is erecting in New York. I have seen magnificent 
plans for the decoration of Washington ; I have seen a 



ARCHITECTURE AND HISTORY 195 

still more wonderful plan for the building of a new 
Chicago out in the lake, a plan which we in England, or 
indeed people anywhere in Europe, would not be able to 
consider on the score of cost. But expense has for you 
no terrors. I will not say that there is nothing that 
Congress will not do for Washington, because I am 
told that you and other men of light and leading have 
projects looking to the beautifying of Washington for 
which Congress is still hesitating to vote the money 
required ; but I know that there is nothing that Chicago 
fears to do if it will increase the splendour of that great 
city, and I dare say that is true of many other cities also. 
He who marvels at the gigantic schemes that are being 
attempted in New York and Chicago, is ready to believe 
that there is no enterprise designed for the benefit of 
such great communities from which its liberal and 
large-minded citizens will recoil on the score of cost. 

I congratulate you, therefore, not only on the attrac- 
tions of the profession to which you belong, but on the 
great opportunities which are open to you. We shall 
watch you from our side of the Atlantic without any 
jealousy of your superior wealth, but with admiration 
of your energy and with high hopes of what you will 
achieve for the adornment of those enormous cities 
which have sprung up on the North American 
Continent. 



THE CHARACTER AND CAREER OF 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

DELIVERED AT THE CELEBRATION OF THE CENTENARY OF THE 
BIRTH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, AT SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, FEB- 
RUARY 12, 1909. 



THE CHARACTER AND CAREER OF 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

DELIVERED AT THE CELEBRATION OF THE CENTENARY OF THE 
BIRTH OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, AT SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, FEB- 
RUARY 12, 1909. 

You are met to commemorate a great man, one of 
your greatest, great in what he did, even greater in 
what he was. One hundred years have passed since in 
that lowly hut in the neighbouring state of Kentucky 
this child of obscure and unlettered parents was born 
into a country then still wild and thinly peopled. 
Three other famous men were born in that same year 
in England: Alfred Tennyson, the most gifted poet 
who has used our language since Wordsworth died; 
William Gladstone, the most powerful, versatile, and 
high-minded statesman of the last two generations in 
Britain; and Charles Darwin, the greatest naturalist 
since Linnaeus, and chief among the famous scientific 
discoverers of the nineteenth century. It was a won- 
derful year, and one who knew these three illustrious 
Englishmen whom I have named is tempted to speak 
of them and compare and contrast each one of them 
with that illustrious contemporary of theirs whose 
memory we are met to honour. He quitted this 

199 



200 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

world long before them, but with a record of great 
work done to which a long life could scarcely have 
added any further lustre. 

Of the personal impression he made on those who 
knew him, you will hear from some of the few yet 
living who can recollect him. All I can contribute 
is a reminiscence of what reached us in England. 
I was an undergraduate student in the Univer- 
sity of Oxford when the Civil War broke out. Well do 
I remember the surprise we felt when the Republican 
national convention nominated him as candidate for 
the Presidency, for his name was hardly known on our 
side of the Atlantic, and it had been expected that the 
choice would fall upon William H. Seward. I recol- 
lect how it slowly dawned upon Europeans in 1862 
and 1863 that the President could be no ordinary man, 
because he never seemed cast down by the reverses 
which befell his armies; because he never let himself 
be hurried into premature action, and because he did 
not fear to take so bold a step as was the Emancipa- 
tion Proclamation when he saw that the right moment 
had arrived. And above all I remember the shock of 
awe and grief which thrilled all Britain when the news 
came that he had perished by the bullet of an assassin. 
There have been not a few murders of the heads of 
states in our time, but none smote us with such 
horror and such pity as the death of this strong and 
merciful man, just when his long and patient efforts 
had been crowned with victory, and peace was begin- 



THE CHARACTER AND CAREER OF LINCOLN 201 

ning to shed her rays over a land laid waste by the 
march of armies. 

We in England then already felt that a great as 
well as a good man had departed, though it remained 
for later years to enable us all (both you here and us 
in the other hemisphere) fully to appreciate his great- 
ness. Both among you and with us his fame has con- 
tinued to rise till he has now become one of the grand- 
est figures whom America has given to World history, to 
be a glory first of this country, then also of mankind. 

A man may be great by intellect or by character 
or by both. The highest men are great by both; 
and of these was Abraham Lincoln. Endowed with 
powers that were solid rather than shining, he was not 
what is called a brilliant personality. Perhaps the 
want of instruction and stimulation during his early 
life prevented his naturally vigorous mind from learning 
how to work nimbly. Yet the disadvantages of his 
boyhood, the want of books and of teachers and of the 
society of men with powers comparable to his own, 
were all so met and overcome by his love of knowledge 
and his strenuous will that he drew strength from them. 
Thoughtfulness and intensity, the capacity to reflect 
steadily and patiently on a problem till it has been 
solved, is one of the two most distinct impressions 
which one gets from that strong, rugged face with its 
furrowed brow and deep-set eyes. 

The other impression is that of unshaken and un- 
shakable resolution. Slow in reaching a decision, he 



202 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

held fearlessly to it when he had reached it. He had 
not merely physical courage, and that in ample meas- 
ure, but the rarer quality of being willing to face 
misconception and unpopularity. It was his un- 
daunted firmness and his clear thinking that fitted 
Lincoln to be the pilot who brought your ship through 
the wildest tempest that ever broke upon her. 

Three points should not be forgotten which, if they 
do not add to Lincoln's greatness, make it more winning 
and attractive. One is the fact that he rose all unaided 
to the pinnacle of power and responsibility. Rarely in- 
deed has it happened in history, hardly at all could it 
have happened in the last century outside America, that 
one born in poverty, with no help throughout his youth 
from intercourse with educated people, with no friend 
to back him except those whom the impression of his 
own character drew around him, should so rise. A 
second is the gentleness of his heart. He who has 
to refuse every hour requests from those whom a pri- 
vate person would have been glad to indulge, he who 
has to punish those whom a private person would 
pity and pardon, can seldom retain either tenderness 
or patience. But Lincoln's tenderness and patience 
were inexhaustible. 

It is often said that every great man is unscrupulous, 
and doubtless most of those to whom usage has attached 
the title have been so. To preserve truthfulness and 
conscientiousness appears scarcely possible in the stress 
of life where immense issues seem to make it neces- 



THE CHARACTER AND CAREER OF LINCOLN 203 

sary, and therefore to make it right, to toss aside the 
ordinary rules of conduct in order to secure the end de- 
sired. To Abraham Lincoln, however, truthfulness 
and conscientiousness remained the rule of life. He 
felt and owned his responsibility not only to the peo- 
ple, but to a higher power. Few rulers who have 
wielded like power amid like temptations have so stain- 
less a record. 

To you, men of Illinois, Lincoln is the most famous 
and worthy of all those who have adorned your Com- 
monwealth. To you, citizens of the United States, he 
is the President who carried you through a terrible 
conflict and saved the Union. To us in England, he 
is one of the heroes of the race whence you and we 
spring. We honour his memory as you do, and it is 
fitting that one who is privileged here to represent the 
land from which his forefathers came should bring, 
on behalf of England, a tribute of admiration for 
him and of thankfulness to the Providence which 
gave him to you in your hour of need. 

Great men are the noblest possession of a nation 
and are potent forces hi the moulding of national char- 
acter. Their influence lives after them, and, if they 
be good as well as great, they remain as beacons light- 
ing the course of all who follow them. They set for 
succeeding generations the standards of the youth 
who seek to emulate their virtues in the service of the 
country. Thus did the memory of George Washing- 
ton stir and rouse Lincoln himself. Thus will the 



204 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

memory of Lincoln live and endure among you, gath- 
ering reverence from age to age, the memory of one 
who saved your republic by his wisdom, his con- 
stancy, his faith in the people and in freedom; the 
memory of a plain and simple man, yet crowned with 
the knightly virtues of truthfulness, honour, and 
courage. 



THE SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND 
IN AMERICA 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE SCOTCH-IRISH SOCIETY OF PENNSYL- 
VANIA, FEBRUARY, 1909. 



THE SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND 
IN AMERICA 

ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE SCOTCH-IRISH SOCIETY OF PENNSYL- 
VANIA, FEBRUARY, 1909. 

WHOEVER wanders hither and thither over the United 
States, as the occupant of the post I hold is expected to 
do, finds no small pleasure in noting how the various 
racial stocks that have planted themselves in the United 
States, and now make up its population, love to com- 
memorate each its own race and the land whence it 
came. To remember Germany or Norway or Sweden or 
Scotland or Ireland does not make a man any the less 
a good American citizen, and it adds to the interest of 
his life and to the width of his outlook over the world 
that he should feel he has another land, another race, an- 
other literature, other historical traditions, with which he 
can associate his memories and his sympathies. The 
man of German extraction has Goethe and Schiller to 
be proud of, and is the more drawn to retain or to learn 
their tongue; the Icelander or Norwegian may read the 
ancient Sagas of his land and stir his soul by recalling 
the exploits of the heroes of Viking days. So even for 
a stock like the Scoto-Irish which has for centuries been 
a part of the British race and speaks the English tongue 
it is well that societies like yours should exist to recall 

207 



208 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and emphasize the further and more special tie which 
binds you to one part of the British Isles besides that 
tie which all Americans, of whatever origin, have to 
our island realm, in language and literature, in tradi- 
tions and institutions. 

Now, gentlemen, before I come to speak of this Scotch- 
Irish, let me say in passing that it might very nearly 
have been a Dutch-Irish Society. It is said that there 
was a time near the end of the sixteenth century when 
the Dutch of the United Provinces, being then very 
hard pressed by Spain, received an offer from the 
English government that if they would abandon Hol- 
land and sail off in ships that were to be provided 
for them, they should be settled in Ireland and there 
receive plenty of land and every encouragement. The 
Might Have Beens of history are always an interesting 
topic of speculation. Had the British offer been ac- 
cepted, the incoming Dutch would, as Protestants, 
have in two generations blent with the English and 
Scotch elements. Ireland might have been a half 
Dutch country, and the whole subsequent history of 
the island would have been different. Whether it 
would have been a history of peaceful progress I will 
not now enquire one always walks over hot ashes in 
discussing Irish history but it might well have been 
more happy than were the annals of Ireland during 
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Yet what 
Ireland might have gained by the addition to her 
population, then far less than the island could support, 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 209 

of a valuable and industrious element, Continental 
Europe would have lost, and the East too would have 
lost, for there might have been no Dutch Empire there. 

Let those things be as they were, or as they might 
have been, the historian cannot but rejoice to see that 
you in the United States take so keen a pleasure in 
recalling the different racial stocks from which you 
come. This sort of connection with the Old World, 
a connection which some of you are too apt to forget, 
because it is a fault of our tune to ignore the past and 
think that it does not matter, adds to the interest of 
your life in the New. It adds to the richness of your 
own thoughts and memories that you are able to go 
back from the country in which fate and the wander- 
ings of your parents have placed you, and connect 
yourselves with some particular part of the Old World 
and with its history and its associations. You look 
backward to two very remarkable stocks. Your posi- 
tion is exceptional because you look back not to one 
stock but to two. As Scotch-Irish, you are the off- 
spring of two races: one of them the Irish is 
Celtic; the other, the Scottish, is half Celtic and half 
Teutonic, for the people of Scotland are a blend of 
two Teutonic elements, the Anglian and the Norse, 
with two Celtic elements, the Gaelic and the Cymric. 
(There are also the Picts, but you will not expect me 
to venture to say who the Picts were.) 

I do not suppose that there ever were two peoples 
who, considering how small were their numbers, have 



210 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

made a greater noise in the world than the Irish and 
Scotch, and you claim kinship with and descent from 
both of those, the Scotch element probably contribut- 
ing most of the blood. 

Like other great and good things, both the Irish and 
the Scotch peoples have had their detractors. Criti- 
cisms have been passed upon them. It has been said of 
the one race that it was reckless, dashing, bold, extrava- 
gant, imprudent. It has been said of the other race that 
it was dry, cautious, even parsimonious. I will not stop 
to enquire whether these charges are justly brought 
against either, for the sufficient reason that you are 
neither pure Scotch nor pure Irish, but a blend of both, 
and I never heard any charge whatever against the 
blend, except that of having "an unco guid conceit" of 
itself. On the contrary, it is well understood all 
those historians whose tales of your settlement here 
and achievements for America I have perused seem to 
agree that the Scotch-Irish or Irish-Scotch, which- 
ever way you like to have it, combine the characteristic 
virtues of both the races, that they unite the tenacity, 
perseverance, and shrewdness of the Scotsman of Alban 
with the fire, dash, and geniality of the Celt of Erin, and 
that these are the qualities which have made them 
valued not only in the United Kingdom, as I shall 
presently show you, but also in this land of their adop- 
tion. So far as my own personal observation goes they 
have really only two defects, and those defects may be 
deemed to be rather the excess of good qualities. You, 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 211 

Mr. President, referred to the experience I had when for 
fourteen months it was my duty and function, not a 
light one, to be virtually responsible for the government 
of Ireland and for the maintenance of law and order 
there. I found then that there were only two slight 
defects that could be charged against the peo- 
ple of Ireland, especially of the north of Ireland, 
from which your ancestors came. One was that 
they valued so highly the right of free speech that they 
were hi the habit of expressing their views of politics, 
church history, and theology, and especially their opin- 
ions about one another, at regularly recurring mo- 
ments, and they used to choose for those moments 
anniversaries which long habit had associated with party 
passions. The Protestants chose the i2th of July, the 
anniversary of the battle of Aughrim, and the Roman 
Catholics chose the i yth of March, a day which ought 
not to have gathered to itself any partisan associations, 
because it belongs to a saint, a Briton by birth, who 
had a sweet and saintly character, and cherished no 
animosity except to poisonous reptiles. On these oc- 
casions historical sentiment, a good thing enough at 
proper tunes, frequently gave rise to scenes that were 
not altogether peaceful, because the other defect I have 
referred to which might again be described as the ex- 
cess of a virtue, their manly readiness to face danger 
on behalf of their opinions, led them to be decidedly 
more combative than was necessary or conducive to the 
peace of the country. 



212 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

It was often my painful duty, since I recognized the 
maintenance of order to be the first and most obvious 
duty of my office, to warn each party that they must 
not hold meetings in places where there was likely to 
be an armed collision with the other party, and even 
to direct a force of police to be present at spots where 
it was probable that collisions would occur and that 
combats would follow; nor was this duty the easier 
because partisans on each side attacked the Govern- 
ment whether it permitted or prohibited the meeting. 
But it all meetings and prohibitions, and even colli- 
sions went along with very little of real bitterness, 
one might almost say with a certain measure of good 
humour; and no one who does not know Ireland can 
know with how much good humour its people can, as 
soon as the actual fighting is over, look back upon 
the conflicts of the factions. Strong language and 
even a little fighting are understood to be part of the 
game which the parties have been accustomed to play, 
and there is much less of bad blood and ill feeling left 
behind than people in England suppose. Ireland 
is, after all, a very charming and winning country. 
Factions in Ireland do not really hate one another as 
outsiders are apt to fancy. They have been fighting, 
more or less, for over two centuries, and have got ac- 
customed to it, and take it less seriously than is sup- 
posed by those who are not to the manner born. Some- 
times I used to think that those who denounced a 
Chief Secretary for prohibiting a meeting or procession 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 213 

would have been disappointed, and would indeed have 
thought poorly of him, if he had not issued the prohibi- 
tion. To issue it was expected from him, and, as you 
might say, was understood to be his part of the game. 
Anyone who has to govern Ireland is likely to come hi 
for plenty of criticism, and will receive most of it when 
he tries to be absolutely just and impartial, for then 
both sides fire into him. But at the same time he is cer- 
tain to leave the country with sincere regret, feeling that 
he has enjoyed his time there, and loving the people even 
more than he did before. That was my experience. 

Now this tendency to pugnacity for which your 
ancestors in Ireland, especially in the north of Ireland, 
were famous, was the same quality that led the Scoto- 
Irish settlers when they came over here to press to the 
front, and to. take up the borderland of Pennsylvania, 
protecting the more peaceful Quakers and German 
Moravians who lived between them and the sea, and 
choosing for themselves the arduous task of subduing 
the wilderness and defending the frontiers of civiliza- 
tion against the Indian tribes. And a very fine record 
they made. Many of the most stalwart and daring 
men of whom this country holds memory were the 
original settlers of northern and western Pennsylvania, 
the fathers of the men who passed from Pennsylvania 
across the mountains into Kentucky and Tennessee, and 
southward into western Virginia and the Carolinas and 
Georgia. A great deal of the best blood, and a great 
deal of the finest intellect that has shown itself in the 



214 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

history of the southern United States is due to the men 
who sprang from that stock. 

They came hither for a reason which deserves to win 
sympathy and respect for them. The earliest settlers of 
New England left Old England in order to have liberty 
to worship God in their own way, and the earliest 
settlers who came to Pennsylvania from Ulster came 
out because, having been brought over from Scot- 
land on a promise of land and good treatment in the 
north of Ireland, they found themselves ill treated and 
almost persecuted by the Episcopalian government in 
the Ireland of that day, a day of general religious 
intolerance. They did not get such good conditions of 
land tenure as they expected; and, what galled them 
far more, they were not able to obtain that full freedom 
and equality for the exercise of their religion and their 
civil rights which they were entitled to count on. That 
was one main cause why they emigrated to these colonies, 
and one main cause also why they were foremost in 
vindicating the claims of the colonists when trouble 
arose between the latter and the mother country. It is, 
moreover, an interesting historical fact that the system 
of Presbyterian church government which these settlers 
brought with them had much to do with the formation 
of a republican spirit in this country and with the growth 
of those habits which enabled your ancestors to work 
republican institutions. The machinery of that system 
is eminently republican, for it consists of representative 
councils, leading up to a supreme representative body, 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 215 

the General Assembly. The traditions and habits it 
had formed proved useful when your forefathers began 
here to organize the constitutional bases of your Com- 
monwealths. One of the foremost champions of the 
claims of the colonial insurgents was a Scotch Presby- 
terian minister, John Witherspoon, president of Prince- 
ton College and one of the signers of the Declaration 
of Independence. 

You have heard so often of the Scotch Irishmen who 
have attained eminence in the United States that I need 
say but few words regarding them. It is a long list, 
even if you omit one alleged to have belonged to the 
Scoto-American race, Captain Kidd, the famous, or 
notorious, pirate. One may count four, five, or per- 
haps even six, Presidents, and you have some claim 
I am not sure of its strength to a man greater than 
any of those Presidents, Chief Justice John Marshall, 
as belonging to the stock. But the persons who have 
figured most in American history have been the fiery 
rhetorician Patrick Henry, the combative and some- 
times headstrong Andrew Jackson, and the still more 
remarkable John C. Calhoun, whose relentless logic 
gave to South Carolina the impulse that made her 
ultimately the leader in Secession. Calhoun applied to 
politics a thoroughly Calvinistic line of thought, though 
whether it was Calvinistic theology that formed the 
logical precision and liking for a stringent symmetry 
of doctrine that belong to the Scottish mind, or 
whether the Scots took to Calvinistic theology be- 



216 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

cause it suited their natural taste and bent, might 
be a subject of enquiry for the curious. In these 
men the lineaments of the race from which you spring 
were unmistakable. In its later ornaments they are 
less evident. Take the race all in all, it has deserved 
well of the United States. I will not dwell upon the 
inventors, like Robert Fulton, nor upon the many 
estimable clergymen, local leaders of opinion, who 
edified their congregations at a length which com- 
manded admiration in those days as much as it would 
repel the weaklings of our own time. But let us not 
forget to pay a respectful tribute to the men, clerical 
and lay, who worked for education with the true Scot- 
tish spirit, and also to the pioneers who went out, south- 
ward and westward, from Pennsylvania, tough and 
valiant men, prepared to face the hardships of a lonely 
life and the perils of the wilderness, carrying with them 
into it nothing but their axe and their gun and their 
Bible, ready to spend their lives in winning for those 
who came after, that security which you now enjoy. 

It was a strong race, one of the strongest that has 
gone to the making of this now composite nation, in 
which it is beginning to be hard to trace the several 
threads that have been woven on the loom of Time into 
the tissue. Some students of history have wished that 
each racial stock of settlers, Irish and Germans and 
Scandinavians and Italians and Poles had each been 
left to occupy a region by itself, where its old idiosyn- 
crasy could have been developed under new conditions 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 217 

into new forms which would yet have retained a touch 
of the old quality. But perhaps the mingling of all to- 
gether into one vast nation gives to that nation more 
flexibility and versatility, and makes it fitter to meet 
the varying calls of a civilization which grows always 
more complex. 

Now let me turn to the Scotch-Irish in their earlier 
home. Having spent part of my boyhood in Ulster 
and frequently revisited it, I may be able to tell you 
something about your Ulster forefathers. When I first 
knew the north of Ireland there were a large number of 
people there who spoke broad Scotch, just the same 
broad Scotch that you would have then heard in Ayrshire 
or Galloway, and who considered themselves to be for 
every purpose Scotch, so much so that in the years be- 
tween 1845 an d 1850 I have heard many an old farmer 
in the County of Down or the County of Antrim talk 
of the Roman Catholic Irish who inhabited the moun- 
tainous districts, such as the Glens of Antrim and the 
Mourne Mountains, into which the Scottish immigrants 
had rather unceremoniously driven them, as "Those 
Irish," or (to be quite literal) in broad Scotch they said, 
"Thae Eerish." In Down and Antrim they inter- 
married but little with the native Celtic population, 
because the latter were nearly all Roman Catholics, but 
there was in those days a less pronounced antagonism 
between the Scoto-Irish Presbyterian and the Roman 
Catholic than has grown up in later days, though even 
now that antagonism is not so sharp as most people 



218 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

outside Ireland suppose. In the days I speak of, the 
Presbyterians had not forgotten the league of the United 
Irishmen and the insurrection of 1798, in which many 
of their strongest men took part, having been drawn 
to common action with the Roman Catholics by the 
misgovernment from which they both suffered. Some 
of the Presbyterian Liberals of that generation used 
to say that if the Roman Catholic insurgents of south- 
ern Ireland had been as well organized and had fought 
as well as the Protestant insurgents of the north, the 
insurrection might have had a fair chance of success. 

Otherwise the people of Antrim and Down had little 
or nothing to do with Dublin, the capital of Ireland, or 
indeed with any part of Ireland south of Carlingford 
Lough. They considered themselves to be Scotch, and 
all their social and commercial relations were with Scot- 
land. Their trading was done with Glasgow or other 
ports of the west of Scotland. Their sons who were 
to be prepared for the ministry or any other learned 
profession were sent to Glasgow University. In fact, 
they were then a little colony of Scotch people planted 
in the Counties of Down and Antrim and in parts 
of Derry and Tyrone. I knew, sixty years ago, old 
Presbyterian elders in County Down who were as 
purely Scotch as if they had lived in Kirkintilloch 
or Kilwinning, but such men would hardly be found 
there to-day. 

That, however, is compatible with our recognizing 
that among those who migrated to America in the 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 219 

eighteenth century, a good many purely Celtic names 
may be found, and that in many a Celtic quality was 
present. A certain number of the Scots who migrated 
to Ulster intermarried with the Celtic Irish in Deny 
and Tyrone, and a certain number of aboriginal Irish 
became Protestants and as such joined the Scoto-Irish 
Presbyterian body. There was, moreover, in those who 
went from Scotland to Ulster and came from Ulster 
hither a good deal of Gaelic blood. The West Highlands 
sent Campbells and Macfarlanes and Macmillans and 
Colquhouns, and there were plenty of Macs from Gal- 
loway. That corner of Scotland was the original home 
of most of those Macs who were at one time so numer- 
ous in Pennsylvania that some one complained of the 
"Macocracy" that was in control there. However, 
whether it is Celtic blood, or whether the spirit of the 
land itself breathes something new into them, certain it 
is that the Scotch-Irish as you find them in Ulster now 
are quite different from the Scotch. Nobody who knows 
the Scotch people well could to-day mistake, when 
he goes into Ulster, its people for Scotsmen, and when 
you meet an Ulsterman in England or Scotland, you 
at once recognize him not only by his accent, though 
that is even more different from the brogue of southern 
Ireland than it is from Lowland Scotch, but also by 
something distinctive in his way of thinking and acting. 
Even a man's face and manner will often indicate that 
he is not the same sort of person as a man from the 
Scottish lowlands. 



220 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

As you claim that the Scotch-Irish have given 
many men of high distinction and usefulness to this 
country, so they have given many men of great fame 
and honour and service to the United Kingdom. It will 
suffice to mention five who belonged to the last genera- 
tion. One of them was the late Lord Chief Justice of 
England, who was, when at the bar, one of the most 
powerful advocates of our time, a strong, if not a very 
learned judge, Sir Charles Russell, afterwards Lord 
Russell of Killowen, whose name is no doubt known to 
many of you who follow the profession of the law. He 
was an Irish Roman Catholic. The other four were 
Irish Protestants. One of them was Sir Henry 
Lawrence, one of the most gallant of our soldiers and 
the heroic defender of Lucknow in the terrible Indian 
mutiny of 1857. There were three others even more 
famous. One was Lord Lawrence, brother of Sir 
Henry, who was, with the possible exception of the 
Scottish Lord Dalhousie, the ablest of all our Indian 
administrators and viceroys for the last eighty or one 
hundred years. The second was Lord Cairns, one of the 
most finished masters of legal science in England the 
nineteenth century saw, a most powerful parliamentary 
speaker, a great advocate and a still greater judge. 
The third was the grandson of a Presbyterian farmer 
near the village of Ballynahinch, in County Down, 
whose son had become professor of mathematics in Glas- 
gow. This was William Thomson, afterwards known 
as Lord Kelvin, and one of the first scientific men of the 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 221 

century. The last time I ever sat by him at dinner he 
told me that his father had, when a boy, been forced by 
the insurgents of 1798 to carry food to them just before 
the battle of Ballynahinch. There were no three men 
who stood higher, or who deserved to stand higher, in 
the sight of England and Scotland during the second 
half of the nineteenth century than Lord Lawrence, 
Lord Cairns, and Lord Kelvin. Those three men came 
from the counties of Deny, Antrim, and Down. So 
you see that in England and Scotland also your people 
can claim to have done great things. Your forefathers, 
when they left Ulster, did not take away all the strength 
and vigour of the old stock, which continues to show 
its quality there just as it has done here. 

You look back, as I have said, to two countries as 
the sources of that mixed race from which you sprang. 
How different has been the fortune of those two coun- 
tries ! Scotland had her troubled times, and she passed 
out of them, and since the union with England, with 
the short and unimportant exceptions of the Jacobite 
rebellions in 1715 and 1745, Scotland has enjoyed peace 
and an ever growing prosperity, and although at one 
time the Scotch excited a little criticism and even dis- 
taste in England, as you may remember from the 
growlings and girdings at them of that fine old typical 
Englishman, Dr. Samuel Johnson, still the Scotch have 
made good their footing in England. They have suc- 
ceeded in getting a fair chance at anything there is to 
win or enjoy. It is no disadvantage to any Scotchman 



222 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

who comes to England if he desires to rise to any Eng- 
lish office or emolument. Four out of the last five prime 
ministers of England were Scotchmen. The present 
Archbishop of York and the present Archbishop of 
Canterbury, primate of England, are both Scotchmen. 
So you may see that the Scotchman has a free field open 
to him in England. Scotland has been, in her union 
with England, a happy and prosperous country. I 
wish I could say the same for Ireland. Ireland, too, 
has given many great and famous men to England be- 
sides those Ulstermen whose names I mentioned to 
you just now. There have been no orators more illus- 
trious, few indeed so illustrious, in the long line of Eng- 
lish oratory and statesmanship, as four Irishmen who 
flourished at the end of the eighteenth century, Curran, 
Plunkett, Grattan, and, above all, Edmund Burke, per- 
haps the only person in modern times who was not only 
a great statesman and orator but also one of the greatest 
prose writers of his day. Any country that produced 
four men like Curran, Plunkett, Grattan, and Burke, 
and produced them all practically in the same genera- 
tion, has rendered a service to England and to the glory 
of the English tongue which Englishmen and Americans 
ought never to forget. I might speak also of many 
famous lights of literature, such as Swift, Sheridan, and 
Goldsmith, to whom the Island of the Saints has given 
birth; but everyone admits what Ireland has achieved 
in those directions. No more against Irishmen than 
against Scotsmen is there now any prejudice in England. 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 223 

England is too great to be ungenerous ; she can afford 
to give credit to all the smaller sister nationalities for 
all the contributions they have made to the common 
greatness of the nation. 

And yet there are many painful pages in the history of 
the relations of Ireland and England. I am glad, there- 
fore, to tell you, as I am sure that your sympathy con- 
tinues to extend itself to Ireland, and that your hearts 
beat for Ireland as one of the two countries to which 
your ancestors belonged, that I believe a better day 
has dawned for that island, and especially for the rela- 
tions between her and England. Within the last thirty 
years there has come about an understanding and a 
sympathy between the great mass and body of the 
British people and the Irish people such as never ex- 
isted before. Few people on this side the Atlantic 
realize how much the British parliament has done of 
late years to ameliorate by better legislation and by 
liberal grants of money what was once the lamentable 
condition of the Irish peasantry. No one who knew 
Ireland fifty years ago can travel through it now without 
being struck by the enormous improvements effected. 
Dwellings have been erected for the labourers all over the 
country. The people are better fed and better clothed. 
They have money in the savings banks, and their children 
are at school. At this moment nearly half the land of 
Ireland has passed, and within the next twenty years I 
believe practically the whole of the land of Ireland will 
have passed, into the hands of the small farmers of Ireland 



224 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

who are cultivating it, and therewith that land hunger 
and those land disputes which have been the most fruit- 
ful source of trouble and discontent in Ireland will have 
been assuaged and set at rest. 

The British people are now genuinely anxious and 
wishful to do all they can for the Irish people, and I 
believe the Irish people have come to understand it. 
In Ireland there is no longer that bitterness towards 
the English which once existed, and it surprises me 
to find how little some Irishmen and sons of Irishmen 
here in the United States understand the change for 
the better that has come to pass. It is true that those 
who cherish the old rancour are now comparatively few, 
but it is a pity that there should be any who retain 
sentiments for which there was ground fifty years ago, 
but for which there is none to-day. In Ireland itself, 
as well as in England, there is assuredly a far better 
and more kindly feeling than ever there was before, 
and we confidently look forward to the time when, just 
as the memory of ancient wars no longer impairs the 
friendship of Englishmen and Scotchmen, so the dissen- 
sions that in the past have divided Ireland and England 
and produced recurrent strife in Ireland herself will have 
been forgotten, and both will be contented and friendly 
members of one and the same great Empire. Is it not 
a great blessing for any country when it can feel itself 
to be truly united, one in fact as well as in name ? 
Happy and strong is that country which can remember 
the struggles and conflicts of the past only as a record 



SCOTO-IRISH RACE IN ULSTER AND AMERICA 225 

of deeds of valour and self-sacrifice, and can bring all 
its children together to unite in honouring the heroes 
of the past, to whichever side or party they belonged. 
That happened long ago as between Scotland and 
England; nations that strove fiercely against one an- 
. other for three hundred years. That has been your 
good fortune here in the United States. I was pro- 
foundly struck by this last week, when I went to 
Springfield to honour the memory of Abraham Lincoln 
on the centenary of his birth. It was impressive to see 
how, not only there in his own State of Illinois, and in 
the city where he had made his home, but everywhere 
over the country, there went up, from the banks of the 
Delaware here in Philadelphia to the banks of the Colum- 
bia in Oregon, one voice of admiration for that noble 
character, and one offering of thankfulness to the Provi- 
dence that had bestowed him on you. But what gave 
the greatest pleasure of all to those who wish well to 
your country was to perceive that no discordant note 
came from the South, and that in many parts of the 
South, and from many eminent spokesmen of the South, 
there was reechoed praise and honour to the memory 
of Abraham Lincoln. So may it ever be in this country, 
and so may it be in my country, too, that England, 
Ireland, and Scotland shall be able to honour not only 
our common heroes, but the heroes of each particular 
nation also, and that those who hereafter win the fame 
of heroes may win it in the service of our common 
country. 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA IN THE 
GREEK THEATRE ON CHARTER DAY, MARCH 23, 1909. 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA IN THE 
GREEK THEATRE ON CHARTER DAY, MARCH 23, 1909. 

EACH time I come to California and this is the 
third time I am struck more and more by the fact 
that California is not only one of the greatest States 
of the Union, but is also, unlike any other state of the 
Union, a Country as well as a State. One reaches 
California either over the vast and silent ocean, or 
else across two lofty mountain ranges and through a 
wilderness, much of which is likely to remain forever 
unpeopled, a scorched and arid wilderness, almost 
as silent as the sea. One feels that one is entering a 
new land. There is a new dry gleam and a new clear 
brilliance in the sunlight ; there are new wild flowers and 
new trees. Everything is unlike the Mississippi Val- 
ley, or the gently undulating plains that rise from it to 
the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains. California, 
moreover, great as is the diversity of hill and valley 
within it, is all one country, not cut up by nature into 
different regions, but one in its structure and general 
character. Guarded on the east by a snowy range, 
it has its natural centre at this magnificent bay, 
where we are standing, and where noble mountains 

229 



230 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

look down upon waters blue as those that wash the 
shores of Sicily. The bay of San Francisco always 
reminds me of 

the sea that parts 
Trinacria from the hoarse Calabrian shore. 

All this great region between the Sierras and the 
Pacific was meant to be the home of one people under 
one government. 

Nature might, indeed, seem to have intended that 
it should be not a part of the United States but a 
separate country under a separate independent govern- 
ment; and a separate independent country it would 
no doubt have been but for two causes. One is to be 
found in those peculiar political and social economic 
conditions which brought on the war with Mexico and 
led to the annexation of all this region by the United 
States. The other is the fact that not long before 
that war the steam-engine, invented some seventy 
years before by James Watt, had begun to be applied 
to transportation by water and land. Although some 
of the early emigrants crossed the great plains and 
threaded their painful way through the canons of the 
Rocky Mountains and over the high Sierras in wagons, 
it was steamships and railways that made California, 
which Spain, and after her the Mexicans, had left unde- 
veloped, really a part of the United States and attached 
her indissolubly to the great Republic. But for the 
two causes I have mentioned, one may well believe 
that those who in the fulness of tune settled in Cali- 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 231 

fornia would, whether they came from Europe or from 
the United States, have set up here an independent 
government. Closer and closer as your relations 
have now become with the Mississippi and Atlan- 
tic states, through the extension and improvements 
of railway communication, closer still as they may 
perhaps become when the Panama Canal has been 
completed, California still wears in many points the 
aspect of a distinct country; and this is one of the 
things which makes her so exceptionally interesting to 
the traveller, and not less to the historian, who en- 
deavors to study not only the history of the past, but 
through the past the probable history of the future. 

On returning here after twenty-six years I am struck 
by the enormous strides with which the material devel- 
opment of the State has advanced. Some of its cities 
are growing almost as fast as New York and Chicago. 
Many parts of the country, which in 1883 were scarcely 
inhabited, have now become rich agricultural dis- 
tricts. The whole country is moving forward at a 
steady pace, which makes the continuance of your 
material wealth well assured ; and even when the mines 
of precious metals have ceased to be so important a 
factor as they were in early days, your agricultural 
resources will continue to promise a stable prosperity. 
Great advances have been made in irrigation, and 
vast tracts have thus been made possible for cultiva- 
tion. If you will take thought in time for the saving 
of your forests, and will replant the areas where forests 



232 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

have existed and which are not needed for agriculture, 
you will be able to conserve not only an important 
source of wealth in the timber, but also the undi- 
minished flow of your streams. With your grain, 
your fruit, your cattle, and your sheep, you may 
confidently rely on the maintenance of the chief sources 
of natural wealth ; and if you desire overflowing riches 
and a teeming population, you can, humanly speaking, 
be sure of having both in as large a measure as you 
wish. The process of development will go on till all has 
been got out of nature that nature can render. Then at 
last will come a day when all the gold and silver will 
have been won from placers and reefs, and all the soil 
capable of tillage will be under crops or laid out in gar- 
dens or orchards ; when railways and electric lines will 
have been constructed sufficient to meet the needs of 
the population, and when that population itself will 
have grown to figures which I hardly venture to 
conjecture. 

When all this has happened, what next ? There is a 
story of an Eastern monarch who, in the midst of his 
career of conquest, was recounting to one of his most 
trusted councillors what he had done, and announc- 
ing what further expeditions he proposed to make. 
He described country after country and nation after 
nation which it was his purpose to overrun and sub- 
jugate, and, as each was mentioned, his councillor 
asked him, "And after that, what?" until at last 
he had enumerated so many that little was left of the 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 233 

then known world over which his armies would not 
have been triumphant. But the councillor at the end 
of the list still repeated, "And then, what next?" 
and the conqueror at last could only say, "Well I 
suppose we shall then sit down and enjoy ourselves and 
live happily for the rest of our lives," to which the 
councillor answered : "If happiness is the goal, why not 
begin to be happy now ? You have already got more 
than any one has ever conquered before. When your 
plans of conquests are completed you will be weary and 
old. Let us take our enjoyment now ?" 

Some question like this arises in one's mind when 
one contemplates the victories over nature which 
men are winning here in the United States. You, 
indeed, will not be old nor weary when those victories 
are completed, for the generations that follow may 
well be as forceful as your own. But the time 
must arrive when the American people will have prac- 
tically finished with the work of conquering, and when, 
having got out of nature all that nature can yield, and 
applied the resources of science to industry and to 
commerce on a scale so large and with such refined 
efficiency that there will be little more motive for the 
accumulation of wealth, they will have to ask them- 
selves what remains to be done, and how best they 
can enjoy all that they have accumulated. So let this 
question be put : What will happen when California is 
filled by twenty or thirty millions of people, and its 
valuation is ten times what it is now, and the wealth 



234 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

will have grown so great that it will be hard to know 
how to spend it ? The day will, after all, have then, as 
now, only twenty-four hours. Each man will have 
only one mouth, one pair of ears, and one pair of 
eyes. There will be more people, as many perhaps as 
the country can support, and the real question will be 
not about amassing more wealth or having more 
inhabitants, but whether the inhabitants will then be 
happier or better than they have been hitherto or are 
at this moment. Although that time may be still dis- 
tant, you may already begin to ask yourselves what 
the development of natural resources and the acquisi- 
tion of wealth is doing for the lives of the people. 
You have advanced so much farther along the path of 
material comfort than your grandfathers dreamed of, 
that it is not too soon to think of enjoyment ; and, 
even if you do not slacken in your pace, you may well 
reflect upon the ultimate amis for which you are 
working. 

How can the University help you to think out those 
aims and to choose the best means for reaching them ? 
Few of us reflect upon the ultimate purposes even of our 
own individual lives, still fewer on the ideals towards 
which national and State life should move. 

What you all wish, what you, and all everywhere 
who think of others as well as of themselves, set up 
as an aim, is to secure for the people as a whole the 
poorer as well as the richer the conditions and sur- 
roundings that make for Happiness. The difficulty is 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 235 

to determine which are the conditions that will be 
helpful and towards which you will work. Let us 
think for a moment of these as they affect rural life 
and city life in your State. 

One is told that in California as well as everywhere 
else the tendency is for the dwellers in the country to 
flock into the cities. Yet in California the conditions 
for an enjoyable rural life are especially favorable. 
The scenery is beautiful and the climate genial as 
well as invigorating. Except in the high mountains 
you have no such grim winter as that of the North 
Atlantic states. Nobody who has enjoyed this climate 
wishes to go back either to Europe or to eastern 
America. In many parts of your State the yield of 
the soil is so large that the cultivators dwell near 
together, living under good conditions and in populous 
communities. Here, therefore, if anywhere, country 
life ought to be attractive. Yet even here, one is told, 
the dislike for what is deemed the comparative solitude 
and isolation of rural life, together with the restless 
passion for amusement, produce a steady drain away 
from the land into the city. In California two great 
cities, San Francisco (including Oakland and Berkeley, 
which for this purpose may be deemed parts of it) and 
Los Angeles, have two-fifths of the whole population 
of the State and are growing more rapidly than the 
State grows. 

This is unfortunate. It is far better for the health 
and physical stamina of a people that the bulk of them 



236 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

should live in the country and work there with plenty of 
fresh air around them. It is better for the national 
mind and character that men should be in contact with 
nature than that they should live cooped up in streets. 
You remember the old line, "God made the country 
and man made the Town." It is better for the polit- 
ical stability of a government that the town dwellers 
should not outnumber the country dwellers, and that 
there should not be many vast aggregations of men 
living packed tightly together and more liable to be 
moved by sudden excitement than country folk are. 

A large number of small farmers, each cultivating 
his own land, constitute an element which gives 
solidity and strength to a State. Such men are less 
eager and volatile and hasty than the dwellers in cities; 
they have a permanent interest in good order and the 
regular working of public administration. I will not 
venture to assert, as some have done, that the prepon- 
derance of large cities is necessarily dangerous ; yet it 
is undesirable, both politically and because it affects 
the physical health and vigor of the nation. 

How are you to check this growth of cities at the 
expense of the rural areas ? One means is the im- 
provement of rural schools, and especially of agricultu- 
ral education, so as to teach the cultivator how to 
apply science to his calling, and to find pleasure in 
applying it. This, I know, your University has been 
doing, and doing so earnestly as to endear itself more 
and more to the people of the State. To make the 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 237 

country children interested in the nature that lies 
around them is to furnish them with a source of en- 
joyment for the whole of their lives. Another means 
is the introduction of cooperative methods among culti- 
vators, methods by which immense progress has been 
made in Denmark and other regions far less favoured 
than this. The extension of electric railways and of 
a cheap telephone service contributes to reduce that 
loneliness of which many country dwellers complain, 
while those of us who are tired of the crowds and 
noise of cities long for rural quiet. My chief con- 
cern, however, is to indicate the importance of the 
object in view, and to observe that California has some 
advantages enabling it to set an example. The irri- 
gated districts of your State constitute a region ex- 
ceptionally fitted to give country life all the attractions 
that should induce men to prefer it to crowded cities. 
The farms are small, averaging, I believe, not more 
than twenty acres. Families live near enough to one 
another to enjoy the pleasures of social life. It is 
easier for people to organize for the purposes of agri- 
cultural cooperation or for social ends. 

When we turn to city life and its conditions we are 
met by still larger questions. On the political side of 
the matter let this one word only be said: that sound 
political conditions in cities are the first and essential 
condition of municipal progress. There is a great 
deal of work needing to be done in Americans cities 
which the municipal government ought to do, because 



238 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

no other agency can do it so efficiently and so com- 
pletely. Yet in many cities much of this work is 
withheld from municipal officers and councils because 
officers and councils are not trusted by the people. 
Once a city has succeeded in placing honest men and 
capable men in control, how much there is which the 
government may accomplish for the people, how 
much for their health, for the proper supply of light 
and water and means of locomotion, for the laying out 
of handsome streets and their adornment by public 
buildings, for the provision of parks and playgrounds 
and museums and libraries and art galleries and 
perhaps concert halls also, where the finest kinds of 
music may be given to the people and their taste for 
such music formed ! A great city ought in all these 
matters to be not only the guardian of the material 
well-being of her children, but also their guide and 
instructress, elevating their tastes, displaying to 
them visible shapes of beauty, helping them to knowl- 
edge and enjoyment, making them feel their common 
interest in intellectual and moral progress. A finely 
ordered city might be, as European cities have before 
now been, as Athens was in the ancient world and 
Florence was in the Middle Ages, a source of inspira- 
tion to those who dwell therein ; and a common pride 
in it may be a bond to unite all classes. Some few 
cities have already set an example in this direction; 
and some rich men, who are enlightened as well as 
rich, have turned their wealth to the best account 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 239 

in providing beneficent sources of enjoyment for their 
less favoured fellow-citizens. 

You may ask why I speak of these things here to you 
in this University. Because it is one of the chief 
functions of a great university, a duty and a function 
which no other organized body in the State is so well 
fitted to discharge, to think about these things and 
to impress their value upon the minds of the people. 
You are celebrating to-day the anniversary of the 
foundation by the State of this central seat of educa- 
tion and learning and research, the mission of which is 
to represent and embody the organized force and will of 
this Californian community in promoting all that makes 
for intellectual advancement and moral elevation. 
Universities are lamps which cast forth their light on 
everything around them. Besides their direct and 
primary duty to train and inform the minds of the 
youth of the State, supplying the knowledge and skill 
needed for the work of life, it is for them to collect 
and focus whatever science and learning can provide 
for any form of State service. Not only ought they 
to distribute information on scientific phenomena and 
processes applicable to agriculture and other industries, 
as some State universities have done with eminent 
success, they ought also to place their knowledge of 
economic history and of the economic conditions of 
other countries, and of the experiments, whether made 
in those countries by legislative or by voluntary 
action, at the disposal of the administrative officials 



240 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and the legislature of their State. When any investi- 
gation is needed, either of a scientific or historical or 
economic kind, they can furnish from among their 
teaching staff trained investigators whose wide range 
of knowledge and mastery of method will make them 
valuable colleagues of the practical men who also 
may be charged with the conduct of such enquiries. 
In short, the universities of a State and this applies 
also to your great sister university (the Leland Stan- 
ford) at Palo Alto and the other Californian seats of 
learning should act as its organs for all such of its 
efforts as need a broader sweep of view and a more 
perfect mastery of exact and philosophical methods 
than the ablest man, taken from the walks of daily 
business or professional life, can be expected to 
possess. 

One danger that has recently begun to threaten 
university life seems not yet to have attacked the State 
universities of the West. I learn with pleasure that 
you have here kept within reasonable limits that 
passion for athletic sports and competitions which has 
been pushed to excess in England and Australia, and 
which in some American universities goes so far that 
the only kind of distinction that students value is 
that which attaches to proficiency in these competitions. 
Intellectual excellence so one is told is in these 
"seats of learning" but little regarded. It is the ath- 
lete, the runner or baseball or football player, who is 
the hero. The competitions and contests of football 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 241 

or baseball teams excite such interest that not only 
do many thousands gather to see the match, but a 
vast deal of time is spent on reading about the perform- 
ances and the prospects of the teams. Thus the 
minds of the students are occupied by these trivial 
matters to the exclusion of interest in things that are 
really fitted to engage and delight intelligent minds. 
This is a strange inversion of what might be expected 
in a high civilization, and a strange perversion of the 
true spirit of university life. It is not an encouraging 
symptom. It reminds one of that inordinate passion 
for the sports of the amphitheatre, and, especially for 
chariot racing, which grew more and more intense with 
the decadence of art and literature and national spirit 
in the Roman Empire. What does civilization mean, 
except that we realize more and more the superiority 
of the mind to the body? 

The muscular powers should by all means be kept 
in perfect efficiency; and the pleasures of strenuous 
bodily exercise are legitimate and valuable. Having 
delighted in one of them all my life I am not likely to 
disparage them. No one who knows how much the 
sound body does for the sound mind will deprecate 
the playing of games by students, and that by all 
of the students, and not merely by an exceptionally 
strong or skilful few. Of such play in hours of recre- 
ation there is nothing but good to be said : what 
one regrets is the encroachment of this passionate in- 
terest in competitions upon the higher interests and 



242 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

enjoyments of academic life. After all, the mind is 
better worth cultivating than the body. It is by the 
mind that civilization advances and peoples are great. 
And what is the purpose of a university except to 
enable the youth of a nation to cultivate those mental 
faculties which they have to exert and develop through 
the rest of their lives, when the few years fit for 
violent physical effort have passed ? 

I have spoken of the teachers and the students : 
let me say a word also as to the graduates. The 
universities may, through their alumni, exercise a 
powerful influence in forming the public opinion of 
their State. In most parts of America the tie between 
the university and its graduates is a close one, closer 
perhaps than anywhere in Europe. They are inter- 
ested in its welfare, and ready to come forward to sup- 
port it when it has something to ask from the legis- 
lature and ready also to raise funds themselves for 
any purpose calculated to extend its usefulness. They 
listen with respect to views proceeding from its Presi- 
dent and its leading teachers. They form associations 
of their own in the principal cities, and through these 
often do much to raise the intellectual and civic tone 
of the community. They are usually to the front 
in all movements for administrative reform. 

One class of graduates in particular has a very 
important part to play. I mean the teachers, partic- 
ularly those in the high schools. The intellectual 
interest, the public spirit, the literary tastes and moral 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 243 

tone of each generation as it comes to manhood very 
largely depend on the quality of the instruction and 
mental stimulus received in the upper schools; and 
this will become all the more true of California as the 
influx of settlers from abroad diminishes, and the bulk 
of the population is home-born. Now, the quality 
of the teachers and their capacity for inspiring fine 
ideals in youthful minds, depends upon the spirit which 
their university breathes into them, and on the high 
conception it gives them of what intellectual energy 
and intellectual enjoyment really mean. The uni- 
versities are the natural centres and culminating 
points of the educational system of a State, and their 
influence ought to make itself felt all through that 
system. 

Lastly, a university, being the visible evidence and 
symbol of the homage which the State pays to learn- 
ing and science, has the function of reminding the 
people by its constant activity how much there is in 
life beyond material development and business suc- 
cess. Philosophy, history, literature, art, scientific 
discovery, the prosecution of all those studies and 
enquiries the value of which cannot be measured by 
dollars and cents, these things not only provide un- 
failing sources of enjoyment, but are ultimately the 
foundation of national prosperity and strength. We 
are all only too apt to think solely about the Present. 
The average man, be he educated or uneducated, is in 
our day so busy that he seldom thinks of anything 



244 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

else. But the university is a place where those who 
are entering on life learn to think also of the Past and 
of the Future, where they are taught to rival the 
great men who have gone before and to meditate how 
they can carry on what such men began for the bene- 
fit of those who will come after. True it is that all 
we know of the Future is that it will never be what 
the Past was. As the Athenian poet says this 
beautiful Greek theatre of yours brings the lines to my 
mind 

"A-Travff 6 /Auxpos KavapiOfJuqros 
Kal (ftavevra 



The law of change is universal. Yet it is mainly 
through understanding the past that we can conject- 
ure what the future will be, can work for it, and can 
secure, so far as we may, that to our State and Nation 
it shall come fraught with blessing. 

When I think of the future, my mind turns back to 
California, and to all that your noble State may be- 
come. You have made it a State, but nature made it 
a Country. It is still in its first youth, with won- 
derful possibilities before it, a country with an infinite 
variety of beautiful mountain, valley, and sea-coast 
scenery. One cannot but feel that it is destined, 
more perhaps than any other part of the United States, 
to develop a new and distinctive type of art, perhaps 

1 Long and unreckoned time brings to life all things out of the un- 
seen and hides them away again when they have been seen. From 
the Ajax of Sophocles. 



WHAT A UNIVERSITY MAY DO FOR A STATE 245 

of landscape painting, perhaps of literature. Your 
people have already an individuality. They are 
Calif ornians ; they have something all their own, 
an aspect, a manner of speech, a softness so one is 
told in the voice. May we not hope to see this 
individuality blossom forth into products that are 
distinctive hi thought and in poetry? Your scenery, 
your social conditions in their earlier stage, inspired two 
of the most striking pieces of literature that America 
has given to the world in the last half century. More 
will doubtless come when a larger part of your people 
find leisure from those restless efforts to develop the 
material resources of the land which have hitherto 
occupied you. Through the centuries to come, in 
which from the peak that stands up behind this spot 
generation after generation of students will see the 
sun mount from behind the mighty Sierras to the East 
and sink into the waves of the Pacific in the West, 
may this University, enriched by the liberality and 
guided by the judicious care of your legislature, 
ever play a worthy part in the building up of a Cali- 
fornian character and in the expansion of a Californian 
community that shall make the Golden State the home 
of a happy and enlightened people. 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT LAKE MOHONK CONFERENCE ON PEACE 
AND ARBITRATION, MAY 21, 1909. 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT LAKE MOHONK CONFERENCE ON PEACE 
AND ARBITRATION, MAY 21, 



ABOUT the blessings of peace, about the horrors of 
war, about the value of arbitration as a means of pre- 
venting war, surely everything that can be said has 
been said. You who meet here to promote arbitra- 
tion and peace have no enemy hi the field, or at least 
none within the range of your artillery. There are 
still persons who hanker after war, and therefore dis- 
like arbitration, but I notice that they are now mostly 
reduced to one argument, viz., that war is the mother 
of courage, self-sacrifice, and other virtues. No doubt 
these virtues may be displayed and have often been 
displayed in warfare, as in many another department 
of life. So courage and constancy have been displayed 
in a still nobler form by martyrs who have died for 
their faith. But we do not desire religious persecu- 
tion for the sake of having martyrs. Courage and 
loyalty are being daily displayed in many another 
way : and opportunities for displaying these and 
other virtues would remain if war were to vanish 

1 In revising this address for publication some additions have been 
made to render the line of argument more clear. 

249 



250 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

as religious persecution has vanished. We need not, 
however, attempt to argue with the people that delight 
in war, because they are not here to-night to be con- 
vinced. Those who dwell on the benefits of war do 
not come to listen to us, their blessings give us no 
chance of convincing them. The Hawks take no 
interest in this congress of doves. Accordingly, 
whoever addresses such a gathering as this finds 
himself in the position of preaching to the converted. 
It is an easy process ; but it is not stimulating to the 
speaker and is apt to prove dull to the converted, 
being also wholly unprofitable to the unconverted 
who keep out of the range of fire. If the latter 
were here, we should make one admission. There 
have been some justifiable wars. Where a so-called 
government plunders and massacres its subjects, in- 
surrection against it may be a duty, and it may be 
right for other nations to put an end by arms to op- 
pressions that are as bad as war itself. Such cases 
have happened in Europe and may happen again. 
But what other wars in our time can be deemed to 
have been necessary ? 

Our discussions at all these peace conferences are 
really discussions in the abstract, and we shall not 
know whether the cause is making real progress until 
the tune comes for translating abstract resolutions 
into concrete practice. No doubt some progress has 
been made. The work accomplished at the Hague 
has been valuable. The creation of the Hague Court 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 251 

and the reference to it of such controversies as that 
which the United States had recently with Mexico 
and that between the United States and Great Brit- 
ain relating to the Newfoundland Fisheries mark a 
real advance. 

Nevertheless, it is felt that the risks of war have not 
disappeared, and the strongest proof of this appears in 
the fact that all the great countries continue to go on 
increasing their military and naval armaments. You 
have heard a good deal already here about armaments. 
Let me add a few plain words about them, words 
suggested by what I have seen of the relations of the 
European States for the last fifty years. There are 
three causes which have induced or may induce nations 
to maintain large armies and powerful fleets. One is 
the desire to aggress on another nation. As to this, 
be well assured that none of the six great European 
Powers has at present any desire or purpose to attack 
any of the other five. Apart from any higher motives, 
each has its internal troubles, each knows the tremen- 
dous risks any attack would involve. Such wars of 
conquest as belonged to the days of Frederick the 
Great of Prussia and to those of Napoleon Bonaparte 
are out of date. A second motive is the wish to have 
that weight in the councils of nations which the posses- 
sion of military and naval force undoubtedly gives in 
such a world as the present. It is not necessarily a 
motive making for war ; all depends on the spirit and 
intentions of the nation, or its rulers, who desire to 



252 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

assert their influence. A third is the feeling that a 
State must be prepared to resist aggression, or that 
extreme form of aggression, invasion, by having the 
strength needed to defend its frontiers. 

As you all know, it is these two latter motives that 
have led the six great European Powers to maintain 
some of them large fleets and all but one of them large 
armies. Each is apprehensive of the possible designs 
of the other. Most of them would like to reduce their 
armaments, but none of them likes to be the first to 
do so. In such circumstances suggestions looking 
towards reduction would come best from a great 
nation which is not threatened with aggression or 
invasion from any quarter. There is only one such 
nation. It is the United States. You here have 
no enemy in the world, that is to say, there is no 
other great Power which has any ground for enmity 
to you, and there is most assuredly none which has 
anything to gain by attacking you. If you remark 
that Great Britain maintains a large navy, let me 
ask you to remember that she is obliged to maintain 
such a navy because, having an army small in com- 
parison with the armies of other European States and 
being within sight of the European Continent, she feels 
that fleets sufficient to guard her coast are an absolute 
necessity, a costly necessity indeed, but one to which 
she must bow. How different is your case ! Against 
whose attacks is it that you stand on guard ? No one 
dreams of invading the United States. You are three 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 253 

thousand miles from Europe and six thousand miles 
from Asia, and the offensive power of a hostile fleet 
diminishes rapidly with every thousand miles from its 
base. Your internal resources, your wealth, your pop- 
ulation, the intelligence and energy of your people, 
added to the advantages of your position, would make 
you strong for defensive war even if your fleet was 
much less than its present size. If you ever again 
engage in war, it f is likely to be a war of your own 
seeking, for nobody will aggress upon you. Is it not, 
therefore, now, I will not say a duty, but an oppor- 
tunity specially offered to you, to render a service to 
the world by taking the initiative toward the reduction 
of those armies and navies which consume so large a 
part of the revenues of nations and increase the ap- 
prehensions with which they watch one another ? As 
you yourselves would say, in one of those concisely 
expressive phrases which you teach your visitors to 
use, is it not "up to you" to do this? 

The existence of immense land and sea forces, kept 
upon what is practically a war footing, increases the 
risk of strife, for it diminishes the period that would 
otherwise elapse before fighting could begin. It keeps 
the minds of nations, and especially of the two 
great fighting professions in each nation, fixed upon 
possibilities of war, and brings those possibilities 
nearer. 

How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds 
Makes ill deeds done. 



254 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

There is no certainty that if some dispute suddenly 
arose inflaming the passions of two nations they would 
refer it to arbitration. The recent arbitration treaties 
which your government has concluded with other 
nations expressly and, I venture to think, unfortu- 
nately exclude from their scope certain kinds of dis- 
pute, those which affect " honour and vital interests." 
The making of this exception shows that governments 
have not that full confidence in the application of 
the principle which many of you may desire. Even 
where the case is one that does fall within the 
terms of an arbitration treaty, we cannot be sure 
that two nations, each perhaps irritated "and excited, 
may not prefer to resort to arms rather than use 
the machinery for securing peace which they have 
themselves in their more tranquil moments provided. 
All the virtuous sentiments, all the good resolu- 
tions, may be forgotten when anger and suspicion 
suspend the reign of reason. There is no present sign 
that this will happen in our time, nor does there now 
exist any ground of difference between any two nations 
which could justify hostilities. All the nations both 
of this hemisphere and of the other have every pos- 
sible reason for endeavoring to keep the peace. In- 
terest to say nothing of conscience and duty pre- 
scribes that course. Nevertheless, when we remember 
how often in the past governments and nations that 
had every interest to keep the peace allowed themselves 
to be drawn into war, and how disproportionate the 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 255 

alleged causes of strife were to the real interests in- 
volved, we cannot be sure that the same thing may 
not occur again, and we must ask once more, Why is it 
that good resolutions are so often forgotten ? Why is 
the practice of nations so much worse than the theory 
which not only you here, but the leading statesmen in 
nearly every nation, profess to hold ? 

One of the answers most often given is that the ill- 
feeling between nations which leads them up to war 
is due to the press. When a dispute arises between 
two peoples, the newspapers so it is charged 
begin in each country to misrepresent the purposes 
and the sentiments of the other people, to suppress 
the case for the other country, and to overstate the 
case for their own, they twist or embellish facts, and 
go on so appealing to national vanity and inflaming 
national passion, that at last they lead each people to 
believe itself wholly in the right and the other wholly 
in the wrong. To what extent these charges are 
justified, your recollections of how the press, European 
and American, has behaved before the outbreak of 
the various wars in which great nations have been 
involved in and since 1870 will enable you to judge. 
As respects the American newspapers, my experience 
of the last few years is that a large majority of them 
are in favour of peace and arbitration and not at 
all unfriendly to foreign countries. That has emphat- 
ically been so as regards their attitude towards my own 
country. 



256 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

However, I am not here either to censure or to 
defend the newspapers. They can take care of 
themselves. But hi the interests of truth and justice 
it must be asked whether it is really the press that is 
chiefly to blame. Public writers do not write to please 
themselves, but to please and interest their readers. 
If foreign countries are attacked, it is because they 
think the public expect and relish such attacks. Men 
are apparently so constituted as to listen more readily 
to blame than to praise bestowed on their fellow-men, 
and there is in many minds a notion that it is patriotic 
to disparage other nations, and that the display of their 
faults enhances our own virtues. Thus in each country 
the newspapers try to meet and gratify what they take 
to be the wishes of the people, playing down to their 
faults rather than playing up to their virtues. 

Every country has the newspapers it deserves for 
the papers are what the people make them, and 
reflect back the sentiments they believe the people to 
hold. So if the people wish that the organs of opinion 
should show a truly pacific spirit, friendly to other 
nations, anxious to know whenever an international 
dispute arises, what the case of the other nation is, 
they will intimate their wish by ceasing to buy, or 
by withdrawing their advertising from, the news- 
papers which try to provoke strife. Thereupon most 
of the newspapers will, in their desire to please their 
public, change their own attitude, will abstain from 
reckless or inflammatory language, and will supply to 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 257 

their readers such facts and opinions as will not kindle 
passion and will at any rate not tend to hinder peace. 

Thus we come back, as in democratic countries we 
always do come back, to the People ; that is, to 
ourselves, the ordinary citizens who are the ultimate 
masters both of the government and of the press. 
Why do we, the ordinary citizens, practically en- 
courage the newspapers to do the very things which 
you, the friends of peace, blame the newspapers for 
doing ? Why do we like to have other nations placed 
in the worst light and their defects exaggerated? 
Why is it thought patriotic to decry and assail 
other nations, and unpatriotic to indicate any faults 
in our own conduct, any weak points in our own 
case ? Why does each people behave as if it alone 
were virtuous and deserved the special favor of Provi- 
dence, even as in past centuries each nation used to 
celebrate a Te Deum for a victory its army had won, 
as if the Almighty were its peculiar friend ? It knows 
that every other people also thinks highly of itself and 
meanly of others, and that each has about as much 
ground and no more for so thinking. Yet it continues 
to glorify itself, and enjoys hearing the other nation de- 
nounced and vilified, just as the Iroquois and Algon- 
quins who once roved these woods hi the midst of 
which we are here meeting, used to hurl opprobrious 
epithets at one another before they rushed forward 
with the tomahawk. 

At this moment all the governments in all the great 



258 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

military and naval States are (I venture to believe) 
honestly desirous of peace. Not one of them has any 
cause for war. Not one of them but would lose by 
war far more than it could gain. It is a fatal error, 
an error which has come down from the days when 
barbarous tribes raided for plunder, and which ought 
to be now obsolete, to believe that nations gain some- 
thing by a successful war. Even when they levy an 
indemnity upon a vanquished enemy, the conquerors 
themselves lose in commerce and industry, and often 
also in the weakened sense of security, far more than 
the indemnity is worth. Civilized governments now 
know this and wish to avoid war. Yet it is appar- 
ently possible for those who desire, from whatever 
motives, to stir up suspicion and enmity to succeed in 
convincing each nation that the other has designs 
upon it. Quite recently this was tried upon your- 
selves. Much suspicion, much alarm was aroused, 
without the slightest justification, between you and 
another Power, though both your government and its 
government were perfectly friendly, each desiring to 
behave well by the other.. Any man of sense could 
see that Japan had no possible interest in provoking 
a conflict with the United States. Her greatest 
interest was peace, a peace which would leave 
her free to deal with the numerous grave problems 
that confront her, in Korea, in Formosa, and else- 
where, as well as to press forward her internal de- 
velopment. She knew that, and we all knew that she 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 259 

knew it. Yet this insensate attempt to represent Japan 
as ready to spring upon the United States went on. 
Why will not people do a little thinking before they 
embark in such a campaign of exasperation? 

Every nation is conscious of its own rectitude of 
purpose ; each declares, and says that it believes, 
that its armaments are maintained for its own safety 
and will not be used unjustly or aggressively. But 
each one is told that it must not credit with similar 
good intentions the other nation which is for the mo- 
ment the object of its jealousy. The ordinary man is 
apparently more prone to believe evil than good ; and 
hardly anybody takes up the cause of the other nation 
and tries to make its case understood. That would 
be called unpatriotic. 

Is not the fault then not so much in the press which 
ministers to our foibles, as in ourselves, that we are too 
ignorant, perhaps wilfully ignorant, about other na- 
tions, that we do not try to understand them and to 
imagine what we should feel in their place ? Is not this 
one chief cause of the atmosphere of suspicion which 
pervades the relations of the Great Powers, and leads 
them to go on creating the enormous armaments and 
levying the enormous taxes under which their people 
stagger ? Would not a better knowledge by each na- 
tion of the other nations do something to dispel these 
suspicions ? Every nation must of course be prepared 
to repel any dangers at all likely to threaten it. But 
it should also try to ascertain whether the dangers 



260 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

it is told to provide against are real or illusory, and it 
should try to enter into and realize the position of 
other nations and ask whether its own conduct may 
not be exciting in their minds a mistaken impression 
of its purposes. Suspicion breeds suspicion ; and na- 
tions have sometimes come to fear and dislike one 
another only because each was incessantly told that it 
was disliked by the other, and that the other was plan- 
ning to attack it. 

Thirty or forty years ago there was a good deal of 
this suspicion between Britain and the United States. 
Better knowledge by each nation of the other has 
extinguished that feeling and substituted for it a gen- 
uine friendship which will, we may feel sure, at once 
recur to arbitration for the settlement of any question 
between them that may arise. Why should this not 
be done as regards other Powers also ? Why when a 
controversy arises with any other country should we 
not, before sharpening our tempers and our swords, try 
to recognize that there are two sides to the controversy 
and keep cool till we have considered the other side 
and made the other nation feel that we wish and mean 
to be reasonable ? 

Our country is not the only thing to which we owe 
our allegiance. It is owed also to justice and to 
humanity, owed to our fellow-men in other countries 
as well as in our own. Doubtless we are called 
upon to think first and feel first for those whom we 
know best and for whom we are most directly respon- 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 261 

sible, our own fellow-citizens. But we are not therefore 
to forget that we have duties to the other peoples also, 
and those duties are doubly urgent if in any case we 
think that justice is as much on their side as on ours. 
True patriotism consists not in waving a flag, not in 
shouting " our country, right or wrong," but hi so 
valuing our country and respecting its best traditions 
as to desire and to strive that our country shall be 
righteous as well as strong. A State is none the less 
strong for being resolved to use its strength in a tem- 
perate and pacific spirit and for putting justice and 
honour above all its other interests. Ought not the 
patriot to say to his country what the poet said to his 
lady : 

" I could not love thee, Dear, so much 
Loved I not honour more." 

It was well observed not long ago by Mr. Root that 
there ought to be, and there was gradually coming to 
be, a public opinion of nations which favored arbitration 
and would condemn any government which plunged 
into war when amicable means of settlement were 
available. May we not go even farther and desire 
and work for the creation of a public opinion of the 
world which has regard to the general interests of the 
world, raising its view above the special interests of 
each people ? Sixty years ago the progress of human- 
ity was held to be marked and measured by the 
growth of a cosmopolitan spirit which extended its 
benevolence and sympathy over the earth. The 



262 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

strengthening of the sentiment of nationality was then 
welcomed as a means of helping oppressed or divided 
nationalities to assert themselves and secure union. 
No one then supposed that national feeling would 
reach its present height. It is surely carried to excess 
when men think only of the glory and the power of their 
State and forget what they owe to mankind at large. 

A very distinguished man, one of the keenest observers 
in this country, observed to me lately that he found 
there was to-day less of a kindly feeling towards mem- 
bers of the non-European races who settle here, such 
as Japanese, Chinese, and Hindoos, less indignation 
when they are ill treated, less anxiety to secure fair 
and just treatment for them, than used to be extended 
to those races forty years ago. My own observations 
have shown me that there has been during recent years 
in Europe less sympathy with those who are struggling 
against the tyranny or cruelty of their rulers in other 
countries than was extended fifty years ago to the 
patriots who then fought and suffered for freedom in 
Italy, Poland, and Hungary. 

Have we then gone back hi this generation? Has 
the sentiment of race antagonism grown stronger and 
the love of liberty where others are concerned grown 
weaker with the growth of nationalism in each country 
and with the absorption of our thoughts by the social 
problems which we are trying to solve at home ? If 
so, it is time that we reverted to the broader and 
more kindly attitude of the generation of Lincoln and 



ALLEGIANCE TO HUMANITY 263 

Mazzini and Gladstone, when the best minds did not 
limit their good-will by colour, or by creed, or by 
country, but sought to labour for the world as well as 
for themselves. 

All over the earth the fortunes of each people are to- 
day more involved with those of other peoples than was 
ever the case before. As the possibilities of strife are 
increased by closer contact, so also the opportunities 
for mutually helpful intercourse are also increased, and 
the welfare of each is more clearly than ever before 
the welfare of all. I do not mean to undervalue any 
machinery that can be provided for settling disputes 
and furthering the desire we all feel to attain our 
common aim in a practical way. But something more 
is needed. We need a spirit which will not merely 
hate war because the realities of war are hideous and 
hellish or because war means waste and destruction, 
but will love and seek peace because it desires the 
welfare of other peoples and finds the same sort of 
happiness in seeing them happy which each of us en- 
joys in the happiness of his own friends. Is it not 
the mark of a truly philosophic as well as of a truly 
pious mind to extend its sympathy and its hopes to all 
mankind ? Would not the diffusion of such a feeling 
and an appreciation of the truth that every nation 
gains by the prosperity and happiness of other peoples 
be a force working for peace and good-will among the 
nations more powerfully and more steadily than the 
best arbitration treaties statesmanship can frame? 



THE TERCENTENARY OF THE DISCOVERY 
OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT BURLINGTON, VERMONT, JULY 8, 1909. 



THE TERCENTENARY OF THE DISCOVERY 
OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 

ADDRESS DELIVERED AT BURLINGTON, VERMONT, JULY 8, 1909. 

MR. PRESIDENT, GOVERNORS or VERMONT AND NEW 

YORK AND GENTLEMEN : 

You are met to-day to commemorate in Vermont a 
great event, which it is fitting that you should com- 
memorate the discovery three centuries ago of that 
noble lake which forms the western boundary of your 
State, and is one of its greatest charms. When we 
think of what this region was three hundred years 
ago, one can hardly believe that such great changes 
can have passed hi so short a time. Short it is, if one 
compares three centuries with the long ages that it 
took to effect similar changes in the countries of the 
Old World. In 1609 the spot on which we are standing 
in the centre of a flourishing city was in the midst of 
a solemn and awe-inspiring wilderness. What daring 
it must have needed to explore those vast and soli- 
tary forests, solitary because the Indian tribes, al- 
ways at war with one another, had desolated them 
by continual strife, leaving hardly a man alive through 
enormous tracts; and how venturesome a spirit that 
have been of the men who traversing in frail canoes 

267 



268 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

long stretches of rivers and lakes, shooting dangerous 
rapids, following difficult trails through dense woods 
with no guide except the savages, on whom they 
could not always rely, woods filled with wild beasts 
and with tribes more dangerous than any beasts; 
what hearts of steel the men must have had who, 
far away from all hope of succour, made those dis- 
coveries the fruits of which you now enjoy! 

When Champlain's Indian guides first paddled his 
canoe over the shining waters of your lake, there was 
no European settlement nearer this spot than the 
little English colony planted two years before on the 
James River in Virginia, and you may be sure that 
Champlain did not wish that the English were any 
nearer, for the settlers whom he had left on Mount 
Desert Island fared ill at the hands of English enemies. 
It was in this same year 1609 that Henry Hudson first 
steered his Dutch ship up the waters of that Hudson 
River with which your lake is now connected by a 
canal. And if Hudson had travelled north through the 
woods from Albany and Champlain had travelled south 
through the woods from the southern end of this lake, 
they might have met. Let us hope they would have 
met in friendship, whatever were the jealousies of 
their respective nations, because each was worthy of 
the respect of the other, for in both there dwelt a 
valiant and unconquerable spirit. 

The men who discovered and explored the con- 
tinents of North and South America make a wonderful 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 269 

line of heroes. If you begin with Christopher Colum- 
bus and go on to a man who was in some ways quite 
as great, certainly as great both in nautical skill and 
in courage, as Christopher Columbus himself, the 
Portuguese Magellan, and if you include in that line 
John and Sebastian Cabot, Vasco Nunez de Balboa, 
the discoverer of the Pacific, and De Soto, who first 
reached the Mississippi, and Cortes and Pizarro and 
Pedro de Valdivia, and such great Frenchmen as 
Cartier and La Salle and Pere Marquette and Cham- 
plain himself, you have a line of daring and gallant 
men to whom the history of the world forms no parallel. 
And among all those Samuel de Champlain, a native 
of the seafaring land of La Rochelle, first of the great 
Frenchmen who explored in the north, was not only 
one of the ablest but also one of the most upright. 
He was equally skilful and resourceful on sea and 
on shore. He knew not only how to discover, but also 
how to govern, as his management of his colony of 
Quebec showed. He was able to describe with wonder- 
ful accuracy the places which he visited. The French 
Ambassador has told you how well he narrated the 
events of his voyage here, and described the features 
of this lake ; and the people of Mount Desert Island 
will tell you that the accounts he has left of their shores 
are so accurate that you may still navigate the sea along 
that coast by the description he gave of the bays and 
promontories with their fringing isles. He was ready 
to fight when the time came for fighting, but he had 



270 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

no wish to shed blood. He inspired confidence in 
his followers, for he was not only brave but also gentle 
and considerate much more considerate of his follow- 
ers than was the not less daring La Salle. And he 
thought first of France and of the faith which he came 
to propagate, and last of himself. Samuel de Champlain 
was, take him all round, what we call a fine fellow. 
He was a man of whom his country does well to be 
proud, and you do well to be glad that your lake 
should bear his name. I like to picture him with his 
Indians paddling up the long stretches of the river 
and coming out upon a summer evening upon the glit- 
tering waters of your lake, seeing it stretch farther to 
the south than the eye could reach, and above, on each 
side of these deep waters, the long ranges of steep blue 
mountains, in which is framed, like some exquisite pic- 
ture, the beauty of this inland sea. We are told that 
the name of your lake in Indian is " Caniaderi-guar- 
unte." Now " Caniaderi-guarunte " is said to mean, 
in the Indian language, "the gate of the country"; i.e. 
the opening by which men can pass northward and south- 
ward through this rugged region. Everywhere else, to 
East and to West, the drainage basin of the St. Lawrence 
is divided from the basins of the Hudson and the Con- 
necticut rivers by lofty mountains and forests which 
were in the days of the discoverers all but impassable. 
It is a natural highway for commerce ; and what hopes 
for dominion and for trade must have thrilled the 
heart of Champlain when he saw this splendid sheet 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 271 

of water stretching away to some unknown extremity 
between the lines of the mountains. 

It was an age when the growth of the great Spanish 
Empire in the southern parts of North America and 
over most of South America had fired the imagination 
of other nations to emulate what Spain had done, so 
Holland and France and England all sought to create 
for themselves dominions similar to that which Spain 
had acquired so easily. So the example of Champlain, 
who came to found an empire here for the King of 
France, fired many another bold French pioneer after 
him, until Du Luth reached the farthest corner of 
Lake Superior at the spot where a great city now bears 
his name, and until La Salle, passing up Lake Michi- 
gan, and by the spot where now Chicago stands, 
crossed over to the Illinois River, and then descended, 
right down to its mouth, the mighty stream of the 
Mississippi. 

Of all that has happened since those days of Samuel 
de Champlain, I have no time to speak. I cannot tell 
you of the long process by which Vermont was built 
up and filled with the stalwart race of the Green 
Mountain boys. Those sturdy men of your moun- 
tain land were in the middle of the eighteenth cen- 
tury what the Western backwoodsmen were eighty 
years later, the active and hardy men who had the 
qualities which, in your later days, you associate with 
the pioneers of the Far West. But in one respect they 
were perhaps better company than the men of the Far 



272 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

West, for they were not so free and easy in their use 
of shooting-irons. Perhaps, however, that is so only 
because in those days the revolver had not yet been 
invented. Neither must I attempt to describe the pro- 
tracted strife that raged along the shores of your lake 
between the Vermonters and the men of New York, a 
strife so bitter that it is said to have driven Ethan 
Allen, your local hero, to contemplate returning to the 
allegiance of King George. Those contests gave an 
occasion for the display of that admirable quality in 
which the citizens of the United States, and particu- 
larly of the northern part of the United States, stand 
preeminent, a strong sense of justice and individual 
right, and a pertinacious determination to assert 
individual right by every method and device known to 
the law. These long differences have now been happily 
settled, so we see the Governors of Vermont and 
New York meeting here in an amity not likely to be 
again disturbed. You have no interstate controversy 
now, and the only question that might have grown into 
an international controversy, one regarding fishing 
rights in the lake, has just been peacefully disposed of 
by a treaty which Mr. Root (who was with us yester- 
day) and I signed last year establishing a joint 
American and Canadian Commission, with power to 
adjust all fishery matters arising in boundary waters. 

How different have been the fortunes of this lake 
and its shores from what its discoverers or your fore- 
fathers expected or foretold. How wonderfully does 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 273 

Fortune make sport of the purposes of man; how 
little can the explorer himself tell to what uses settlers 
will put the lands to which he has cleared the path. 
Champlain, besides seeking, like Henry Hudson, for 
a Northwest passage to the Pacific Ocean, came to 
establish the dominion of the royal House of France, 
to spread the Gospel, to open up a profitable trade 
in furs, and to make the river St. Lawrence and this 
lake great highways of commerce. The monarchy of 
France is gone, the Indians whom he sought to convert 
are gone, the furs are gone; and except for a short 
time when the trade in furs was active along Lake 
Champlain, the lake has never yet been a thorough- 
fare of trade. It promised to become one when, im- 
mediately after the first steamboat of Fulton was 
launched upon the Hudson, a second steamboat was 
launched to ply here. But soon after came the rail- 
road, and by the time that the lands to the north and 
south had been so filled up that there were plenty of 
passengers and freight to carry to and fro, the swifter 
transportation by rail had superseded water carriage, 
and it is now the railroads and not the steamers that 
bear the crowd of passengers to and fro between New 
York and Montreal. However, if the hopes entertained 
by some enterprising Vermonters are realized and the 
now projected deep water line of navigation is opened 
up, it may be that the dream of Champlain will at 
last be realized and that your lake will at last become 
that highway of commerce he desired. 



274 "UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

But now it has become at last a dwelling of peace 
and quiet. No more warships are seen upon your 
waters, no more forts stand armed upon your shores, 
no shouts from war canoes awaken the echoes of your 
cliffs. We have been celebrating for the last two days 
on the other side of the lake, first at Ticonderoga 
where Frenchmen and Englishmen fought on land, and 
then at Plattsburg where Colonial Americans and Eng- 
lishmen fought on water, and you are to-day celebrat- 
ing here in Vermont, a veritable festival of peace, to 
which my dear friend and colleague, the representative 
of France, has come to mingle his thoughts of peace with 
ours, and hi which the soldiers of Canada have come to 
parade beside your soldiers, to be reviewed by your 
genial President, and to be welcomed, as they were 
yesterday, with an enthusiasm which thrilled every 
British and Canadian heart. One wonders what the 
future has in store for a lake whose history has been 
so strangely unlike what was predicted for it. 

When one remembers the failures of prophets in 
the past, one ought to be shy of making any prophecies 
for the future ; yet a man may be tempted to prophesy 
when he knows that the truth or falsity of his predic- 
tion cannot be known until long after he and those 
who hear him have all disappeared from this scene. 
So I will venture to make one prophecy. It does not 
seem likely that your shores either on this side or in 
New York State on the other side of the lake will 
ever be the scene of any startling or sudden develop- 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 275 

ment of material wealth. You have indeed some 
fertile lands in southern Vermont, and some mines and 
marble quarries, but you have not here the coal that 
many other parts of the country possess, and your soil 
is not as fertile as are the regions along the Mississippi 
and its great tributaries. It is indeed possible that 
mineral wealth as yet unrevealed may lie hidden deep 
in the recesses of your mountains. Science so startles 
us nowadays with strange discoveries that we can 
never tell what store of minerals possibly, though 
so far as we know, not probably, of radium, far 
more costly than gold may be discovered in the 
bosom of some kind of rock not hitherto known to 
contain it. But, as far as we can look into the future 
at present, it would seem that the great assets of 
these hills and valleys of Vermont are neither minerals 
nor fertility of soil. But there are two other assets. 

One is the race of men and women that inhabit it. 

You men of northern Vermont and northern New 
Hampshire and Maine, living among the Appalachian 
rocks and mountains in a region which may be called 
the Switzerland of America you are the people who 
have had hearts full of the love of freedom which burns 
with the brightest flame among mountain peoples, 
and who have the restless energy and indomitable 
spirit which we always associate with such lake and 
mountain lands as those of Switzerland and Scotland. 
This bold spirit and force of character have been evident 
in the large number of distinguished men that you 



276 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

have given to the United States, and in the hardy 
pioneers and settlers which you have sent forth from 
northern New England to reclaim from the wilderness 
and colonize and develop western New York and Ohio 
and the rich prairies of the farther West. 

The other asset is the beauty and variety of the 
scenery with which Providence has blessed you. No 
other part of eastern America can compare for the 
varied charms of a wild and romantic nature with the 
regions that lie around Lake Champlain and the White 
Mountains. And as wealth increases in other parts 
of the country, as the gigantic cities of the Eastern 
States grow still vaster, as population thickens in the 
agricultural and manufacturing parts of Ohio and Penn- 
sylvania, of Indiana and Illinois, one may foresee a 
time when the love of nature and the desire for health- 
giving recreation will draw more and more of the popu- 
lation of those cities and states, which will then be 
overcrowded, to seek the delights of nature in these 
spots where nature shows at her loveliest. It would 
need the imagination of a poet, or rather perhaps the 
glowing pen of a real estate agent, to figure out to what 
heights the value of landed property, and especially 
of villa sites on these shores, will have risen half a 
century 'hence. But this can be confidently said: The 
people of all eastern and north-central America will 
come more and more to resort to this region of moun- 
tains and lakes as the place in which relief will have 
to be sought from the constantly growing strain and 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 277 

stress of our modern life. And one who values nature 
and loves nature, and who foresees such a future for 
this part of North America, cannot refrain from taking 
this and every opportunity of begging you to do all you 
can to safeguard and preserve those beauties and 
charms of nature which have here been lavished upon 
you in such -abundant measure. Do not suffer any of 
these charms to be lost by any want of foresight on 
your part now. Save your woods, not only because 
they are one of your great natural resources that 
ought to be conserved, but also because they are a 
source of beauty which can never be recovered if they 
are lost. Do not permit any unsightly buildings to 
deform a beautiful bit of scenery which can be a joy 
to those who visit you. Just as cultivated fields and 
meadows add to the variety of a landscape by giving 
it a sense of human presence and useful labour, so also 
does the modest farmhouse, and the village church, 
and even the mansion looking out of its woods, if it be 
tasteful in form and colour. But the big, square brick 
factory and the tall chimney pouring forth a black 
smoke cloud are enough to destroy the charm of the 
sweetest landscape. In many another spot where they 
can be set up they will do no harm, but these exquisite 
shores are no place for them. So, too, preserve the 
purity of your streams and your lakes, not merely for 
the sake of the angler, but also for the sake of those 
who live on the banks, and of those who come to seek 
the freshness and delight of an unspoiled nature by 



278 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the river sides. Keep open the long grassy ridges 
that lead up to the rocky summits of those picturesque 
ranges which stretch themselves out before us. Let no 
man debar you from free access to the tops of your 
mountains and from the pleasure of wandering along 
their sides and enjoying the wide prospects they afford. 
I am sorry to say that in my own country there are 
persons who, in the interests of what they call their 
sporting rights, have endeavoured, and too often with 
success, to prevent the pedestrian, and the artist, and 
the geologist, and the botanist, and anyone who loves 
nature and seeks her in her remote and least accessible 
recesses, from climbing the mountains and enjoying the 
views they afford. We, who on our side of the Atlantic 
deplore the exclusion of the people from the hills of 
Scotland, warn you here not to suffer any such en- 
croachments to be made on the natural right of every 
people to enjoy the scenery of their country. Men 
may for the sake of the whole community be debarred 
from trespassing on land dedicated to agriculture, 
but the bare hillsides and moorlands which cannot be 
used for tillage ought to remain free and open, 
available for the pleasure of everyone who seeks 
health and recreation there. I am glad to hear that 
you have in Vermont a club of mountain climbers who 
are making foot trails along the glens and ridges, and 
placing shelters below the highest peaks where the 
climber may find night quarters on his ascent through 
uplands far from any house. Such a club will doubt- 



DISCOVERY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN 279 

less help to watch over public rights. See to it, 
therefore, that you keep open for the enjoyment of all 
the people, for the humblest of the people, as well as 
for those who can hire villas and sail about in yachts of 
their own, the scenic beauties with which Providence 
has blessed you. 

Some means you will surely find by which this 
noble lake, the most various in its beauty of all the many 
lakes of this Appalachian region, can be preserved for 
the enjoyment of your whole American people with 
some of that wild simplicity and romantic charm which 
it possessed when the canoe of Champlain the Dis- 
coverer first clove its silent waters. 

It was then a deep solitude girt in by primeval 
forest. To-day its shores are studded by thriving 
towns and villages and "the rich works of men," as 
Homer calls them, give it a cheerful air. Beautiful it 
always was and is, for the long ridges of the Green 
Mountains look across to the bold Adirondack peaks, 
and between them the wide expanse smiles under the 
sun in myriad wavelets. 

On one of the rocky headlands of Mount Desert 
Island a tablet of iron let into a mass of granite 
records the name of the man who first touched its 
coast. Here no monument is needed. The lake itself 
and its engirdling mountains are the best memorial 
to the heroic explorer, one of the first and greatest of 
those who won for France the glory of discovery, and 
whose own fame has now gone out over all the western 
world, Samuel de Champlain. 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 

ADDRESS TO THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, APRIL, 1910. 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 

ADDRESS TO THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, APRIL, 1910. 

EIGHTY years ago Thomas Carlyle preached the gospel 
of Silence and denounced the growing tendency to talk 
in public. Since then the habit has increased, is increas- 
ing, and seems most unlikely to decrease. It may be 
true that everything worth saying has been said. 
Nevertheless, orations will go on as long as men are 
willing to listen. 

You whom I see here present will join some of you 
have already joined the great army of orators, so it is 
natural that you should desire to have a few hints 
given you on the subject, even if they claim no other 
authority than that which fifty years of observation 
here and in Europe may seem to confer. They shall 
be put in the form of a few short maxims of a severely 
practical character. Most, perhaps all, of these 
maxims will appear obvious, but I give them not be- 
cause they are novel, but because they are so con- 
stantly neglected as to be worth repeating. 

i. Always have something to say. The man who 
has something to say and who is known never to speak 
unless he has, is sure to be listened to, especially in a 
deliberative assembly or wherever there is business to 

283 



284 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

be done, while the man of mere words carries no sort of 
weight. Try to have an idea, or if you cannot find 
one ideas are none too common have two or three 
relevant facts. You may tell me that sometimes a man 
is forced to speak when there is nothing to be said. This 
does not often happen, because if you think a little be- 
fore you rise, you will almost always find something bear- 
ing on the matter in hand, even if the occasion be a 
purely ornamental one. There is a well-known speech of 
Cicero's in which he had to present a legal case on behalf 
of a poet. He evidently knew that the legal case was 
weak, so he passed quickly and lightly over it, but made a 
graceful and eloquent discourse upon poetry in general. 
The theme was not very novel then, and is still less novel 
now, but the discourse was so finished in its language 
that it can still be read with pleasure. So when you 
have to propose the health of some one of whose personal 
merits you know nothing, you may say something 
about the importance of his office if he is a state 
governor or a mayor, or the services rendered by his 
profession if he is a surgeon, or if he is a newspaper 
reporter, Milton's Areopagitica with its stately argument 
on behalf of the liberty of unlicensed printing may sug- 
gest something appropriate. If you can find nothing 
at all to say, don't say it. Your silence will not harm 
you in the long run. 

Lord Brougham, who was a power in his day, though 
his eloquence does not suit our modern taste, advised 
young speakers to begin by acquiring fluency as the 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 285 

one indispensable thing, and William Pitt the younger 
is said to have acquired his marvellous command of 
words by having been trained by his father to trans- 
late rapidly at sight from Latin authors. Nevertheless 
there is such a thing as a fatal fluency. Whoever follows 
Brougham's advice ought to beware the habit of think- 
ing more of the words than of the sense. 

2. Always know what you mean to say. If possible, 
consider beforehand what you are going to say, and 
make your own mind perfectly clear what is the argu- 
ment which you want to put, or the facts you want to 
convey. If your own mind is muddled, much more mud- 
dled will your hearers be. Bring your thoughts to a 
point, reject whatever is irrelevant, and be content if 
you have one good point and can drive it home. It is 
pitiable to see how often a man who really has some 
knowledge of his subject goes groping or stumbling 
about, trying to get somewhere, but not getting any- 
where, not for want of words, but because he cannot 
put his ideas into the form of definite propositions. 
In trying to discover what it is that you mean, 
you may discover that you mean nothing. If so, 
the sooner you know it the better. Sometimes one 
hears a speech in the course of which the speaker gets 
his own mind clear, and comes at last to know what 
he means, but when it is too late to get hold of the 
audience. If he had thought the thing out beforehand, 
all would have gone well. 

3. Always arrange your remarks hi some sort of order. 



286 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

No matter how short they are to be, they will be the 
better for having a beginning, a middle, and an end. 
Nothing pleases an audience more than the sense 
that they are being led along a path towards a definite 
goal by a man who knows his way. It gives them 
confidence that the speaker understands what he is 
about and will bring them out all right somewhere. 
Do not, however, let your arrangement be so obtru- 
sively elaborate as to alarm them. It used to be the 
fashion of Scottish preachers to divide their subject into 
three or four "heads" with a "firstly," a "secondly," 
a "thirdly," and so forth, under each head, so that 
the listener knew what a long road he had to travel. I 
remember one sermon in which a venerable minister 
got as far as nineteen thly under the second head. The 
process of classifying facts and arguments and placing 
them in their right order in one's own mind helps 
to clarify it, while it adds strength to the argument. 
It might almost be said that a well-arranged speech is 
seldom a bad speech, because in the process of arrange- 
ment a man of any sense is sure to find out the 
deficiencies in his facts . or the weak points in his 
arguments in time to cure them. 

4. At all hazards, Be Clear. Make your meaning, 
whatever it is, plain to your audience. Though 
obscure speech is usually due to obscure thought, this is 
not always so. Some persons who think clearly have not 
learned to express themselves clearly, because they are 
nervous in public, or have an insufficient command of 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 287 

words. In such cases it may be better to resort to 
the expedient, otherwise to be deprecated, of reading a 
speech from manuscript rather than confuse the audience. 
You have, moreover, to think not of the form thoughts 
take in your own mind, but of the form in which they 
will be comprehensible by your audience. Do not imi- 
tate the bishop who, preaching in a village church, 
told Hampshire rustics that "Nature herself shall be 
the palimpsest on which Omnipotence shall inscribe the 
characters of a rejuvenated humanity." Let the con- 
struction of your sentences be simple enough for the 
hearers to follow, and the words such as they cannot fail 
to understand. To find themselves puzzled over your 
meaning, and while they are still puzzling over your 
last sentence, to be unable to attend to the next one, 
annoys your hearers and lessens the chance of pleasing 
or persuading them. Though obscurity of expression 
is mostly due to obscurity of thought, it sometimes 
happens that people whose thought is clear enough 
insist on wrapping it up in vague and cloudy rhetoric. 
To the rule that lucidity is the first of merits, there 
is one exception, viz., where a speaker feels himself 
driven to the shelter of obscurity. I have seen astute 
debaters, compelled by their position to speak, unwill- 
ing to be untruthful, yet forbidden by considerations 
of prudence to speak out frankly all they thought, de- 
liberately involve themselves in a web of words where 
each sentence seemed to have a meaning, but the hearers 
were left to wonder what the whole speech meant. 



288 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

But such contingencies are rare ; you may go through 
life without getting caught in one. 

5. In controversial speaking, as, for example, in 
conducting a lawsuit or arguing a proposal in a delibera- 
tive body, think always of what your opponent will 
say, and so frame your speech as to anticipate his 
answers and give little opening for his criticism. 
The grounds of this rule are too obvious to need 
illustration. Add to it the old maxim that in replying 
you ought to meet and counter your adversary's jest 
by earnest, and his earnest by jest. Aristotle said it, 
but mother wit has taught it to many a man who 
never heard of Aristotle. 

6. Always reflect beforehand upon the kind of 
audience you are likely to have, for even in the 
same country or in the same section of the country 
audiences are by no means the same, and what 
suits one may not suit another. I have known 
practised speakers throw overboard the speech they 
had intended to deliver and substitute something 
different when they looked from the platform over the 
faces beneath. If your hearers are mostly educated 
men and women, you may assume much as already 
known which it would be proper to explain to persons 
of scantier knowledge. But it is safer to proceed on 
the assumption of ignorance (so long as you do not let 
the audience think you are talking down to them) than 
to assume knowledge. We are all of us more ignorant 
than other people know, or indeed than we know our- 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 289 

selves. If the audience are disposed to be hostile, 
you will begin by putting them in good humour 
and trying to excite their curiosity as to the line you 
will take. If they are already wearied by the ha- 
rangues of your predecessors, you will go at them with 
quick, sharp, bright, bold sentences, and will let them 
feel that you do not mean to detain them long. And 
you will watch them as you go along just as you would 
watch your fly on the surface of the water you are 
fishing. 

7. Never despise those whom you address, whatever 
you may think of their intellectual attainments. Give 
them the best you have to give. You need not talk 
over their heads, as I once heard an eminent English 
historian, when he was candidate for a seat hi Parlia- 
ment, discourse to agricultural labourers upon the 
Landesgemeinde of the Forest Cantons of Switzerland. 
But you will find it politic as well as polite to respect 
them, and you must never think that your best thoughts, 
expressed in the fittest words, are too good for them. 
Though noisy and empty rhetoric will often draw cheers, 
still the masses of the common people almost always 
appreciate solid and relevant facts, sound and useful 
thoughts, stated in language they can understand, 
and there will probably be among them those who 
would perceive and resent any indication that you 
were talking down to their inferior capacity. 

8. Be sparing of literary ornament, except in 
speeches that are of a frankly decorative kind, such 



290 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

as those made after dinner, or panegyrics of some notable 
person whom it is wished to honour. Just as an ornament 
should seem when used in architecture, to be an orig- 
inal and essential part of the whole design, so in oratory 
the decorative parts should be connected with, and 
naturally grow out of, the substance of the matter in 
hand, and should help to make the speech more vivid 
and telling, rather than seem stuck on in order to please 
the ear without strengthening the sense. Abraham 
Lincoln rendered a great service to American eloquence 
when he renounced the florid or tawdry style that 
prevailed in his day, and set an example of speaking 
that was plain, direct, and terse. Be sparing with 
superlatives; reserve them for occasions where they 
will really tell. Take pains to choose the strong and 
simple words, and the words that exactly fit the case. 
Even an audience that is not itself very cultivated 
feels the charm of choice and pointed diction, and of 
words that have some touch of colour in them, such as 
apt metaphors. A well chosen metaphor often clinches 
an argument, or becomes an illustration of it in 
miniature. 

9. As respects humorous anecdotes, and jokes in 
general, these are eminently matters of individual 
taste, in which each man will please himself, and few 
general counsels can be given. Though we all envy the 
speaker who has plenty of merry jests, he needs to be- 
ware of abusing his gift. There is a tendency to-day to 
make after-dinner speaking a mere string of anecdotes, 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 291 

most of which may have little to do with the subject 
or with one another. Even the best stories lose their 
charm when they are dragged in by the head and 
shoulders, having no connection with the allotted theme. 
Relevance as well as brevity is the soul of wit, for a 
good speech is a work of art, in which every part 
should have an organic relation to every other part. 
And when you tell a story, take some pains with the 
form of it. The late Mr. James Russell Lowell, whom 
we in England admired as the best after-dinner speaker 
of his day, was a master in that line. The classical 
felicity of his diction set off and gave a charm to the 
smallest anecdote he told. 

10. Never, if you can help it, be dull. It is a fault to 
have too many flowers or too many fireworks, but it is a 
worse fault to be tedious. An eminent Oxford teacher 
of my undergraduate days, who is now a learned and 
distinguished English writer, coined for his pupils a 
phrase which had a great vogue in the university: "It 
is better to be flippant than to be dull." This audacious 
advice, meant for young writers, is even more applica- 
ble to young speakers, because, bad as dulness is in 
print, it is still worse when you cannot escape from 
it without quitting the dinner table. Many are the 
causes of dreariness in a speech. One is lack of good 
matter, for it often happens that the less a man has 
to say, the more he spins it out. A still commoner 
one is confused thinking, which makes the speaker 
lose himself in vague and pointless phrases. Another 



292 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

is monotony in language, the frequent repetition of 
the same words, because the speaker's vocabulary is 
scanty and he can command no others. You may 
ask how dulness can be avoided when the subject is 
not a lively one. Well, some subjects are dry. The 
treasurer of a city, or even of a baseball club, who is 
presenting his accounts, cannot make them fascinating. 
But dryness is not the same thing as dulness. The least 
promising subject may be treated with a conciseness and 
precision and lucidity which allow one the pleasure that 
good workmanship gives. A speech with those merits 
will not be dull. Though it may be dry, it will stand 
out sharp and clear, like a bare mountain peak in the 
desert of Arizona, and even to the driest topics you 
can impart a little variety by a lively simile or an 
apt illustration. Dulness is often the result merely of 
monotony in voice and manner : and this brings me to 
another maxim. 

ii. Remember the importance of Delivery. De- 
mosthenes, greatest of all orators, is reported to have 
said when asked what was the chief quality in oratory, 
Delivery; and when asked what was the second and 
again what was the third, to have made the same reply. 
It is related that his own elocution and manner were at 
first poor, and were improved by incessant study 
and practice. And though a rich or sweet or sonorous 
and resonant voice is a gift of nature, care and training 
can do much to get good results out of a mediocre organ. 
Articulation, modulation, and expression may all be 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 293 

cultivated. To listen to words clearly and finely spoken, 
and to sentences in which the voice adapts itself to 
the subject, adds greatly to whatever pleasure a speech 
can give. However, the four suggestions I make to you 
are applicable to all, be their voices good or bad. First, 
Be sure you are heard. Better be silent than be in- 
audible. Secondly, Do not shout. It is not necessary. 
Take the measure of the room, look at the man in the 
last row, throw your voice out so as to reach him, 
watching his face to see if the words get there, and trust 
not so much to loudness as to clearness of enunciation 
and a measured delivery. Thirdly, Beware of exhaust- 
ing your voice. Do not strain it, however large the 
room, to its utmost power, at least until near the end 
of your speech. Fourthly, Vary now and then the key 
or pitch of your voice. It relieves the listener, and 
to suddenly raise or lower the voice when there is any 
change in the topic often helps the sense of the words. 
A speech seems twice as long when it is delivered in a 
monotone, and most speeches are too long already. 

Were I addressing an English audience I should add a 
fifth suggestion. Speak slowly. But the fault of going 
too fast is far less common here than in Britain; in- 
deed, some of your speakers tend to the opposite error 
of going too slow. Dr. Phillips Brooks is the only 
great American to whom I have ever listened who 
spoke very rapidly. It may interest you to know that 
John Bright, who was on the whole the greatest English 
orator of the last half century, told me that when he 



294 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

first began to speak in public his utterance was so rapid 
that on one occasion a newspaper reported an address 
he had made at a political meeting in the following 
words: "The next speech was made by our young 
townsman, Mr. John Bright, but he spoke so fast that 
our reporter was quite unable to follow him." When 
and after Bright had reached his prime, the measured 
deliberation with which he delivered his sentences made 
them tell like the blows of a hammer. 

12. Never read from manuscript if you can help 
it, unless when the occasion is one of such exceptional 
solemnity or dignity that a long and highly finished 
piece of composition is expected. As for notes, the 
fewer the better, but if you find that you cannot trust 
your memory to supply the order of the topics and the 
particular points you wish to make, or illustrations you 
wish to intersperse, it is better to refer to your notes 
for these than to miss the points altogether. There 
are speakers whose habit it is to carry notes in their 
pocket even when they hope not to use them. It gives 
confidence, and saves them from such a fiasco as I have 
seen befall even practised debaters in the House of Com- 
mons, when, having suddenly lost the thread of their 
discourse, they were obliged to sink sadly to their seats, 
amid the crushing commiseration of their opponents. 

13. Whether you use notes or not, always have ready 
two or three sentences with which to sit down. You 
need not be either flowery or sublime in your closing 
words, but some sort of a peroration you ought to have 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 295 

at command, so as not to bungle and hesitate when 
the time for ending comes. How often do we see an 
unhappy fellow-creature go maundering or floundering 
helplessly along, amid the growing contempt of the 
audience, having already said all he had got to say, 
and yet unable to stop because he feels that a closing 
sentence is needed and he cannot find one. 

14. Lastly and this is a maxim which is of universal 
application, Never weary your audience. If they are 
tired before you rise to speak, cut your speech short, 
unless you feel able to freshen them up and dispel their 
weariness. Just as physicians say that a man ought to 
leave off eating while he is still hungry enough to go 
on eating, so let your hearers wish for more food from 
you, rather than feel they have had too much already. 
Consider the hour of the evening and human weakness. 
One of the most successful speeches I remember to have 
heard of was made by a famous engineer at a great 
public dinner of the British Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Science. He came last; and midnight 
had arrived. His toast was Applied Science, and his 
speech was as follows: "Ladies and Gentlemen, at this 
late hour I advise you to illustrate the Applications 
of Science by applying a lucifer match to the wick of 
your bedroom candle. Let us all go to bed." 

It might be rash to say that a short speech is never a 
bad speech, for I have known a man grieve his friends 
and rum his case in five minutes. But for ten speeches 
that are too short there are a hundred that are too long. 



296 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

A lecture ought not to exceed fifty minutes, a sermon 
twenty-five minutes, an after-dinner speech (unless of 
course it is meant to be the chief address of the even- 
ing) fifteen minutes. For speeches in law-courts or 
legislatures, where a mass of facts may have to be ex- 
pounded and commented on, limits cannot be fixed, 
but all speeches, everywhere, gain by compression. 
Mr. Bright, like Chatham and most of our great 
orators, seldom spoke for more than an hour. Mr. 
Gladstone, like Edmund Burke, did not so restrict him- 
self, and both these illustrious men suffered from their 
copiousness so far as the audience of the moment was 
concerned, though no one could wish Burke's magnifi- 
cent orations, as we now have them in print, to be 
shorter by a sentence. Like Daniel Webster's, they 
are good all through. 

The maxim not to tire or bore your audience is 
part of a wider precept; viz., to remember the main 
purpose of a speech. Most speakers are beset, espe- 
cially in their earlier days, by a temptation from which 
even those of longer experience are not exempt, the 
temptation to regard a speech as the opportunity for 
displaying talent rather than as a means to an end. 

The aims or ends of speaking are commonly classed 
as two. One is to Persuade. The other is to Delight. 
In order to persuade a court or a jury you must think 
not of showing off your theoretical gifts, but of getting 
the judgment or the verdict. The best speech is the 
speech that convinces court or jury. In a legislative 



SOME HINTS ON PUBLIC SPEAKING 297 

body, the best speech is that which draws votes, or, 
if that be impossible, which puts heart into your own 
party. When the speech is meant not to persuade, 
but to give delight, there are three quarters in which 
pleasure may be felt; the person in whose honour the 
speech is made, the audience, and yourself. It is a 
common error to think too much of the last and too 
little of the second. So long as you are mindful to say 
nothing unworthy of yourself, nothing untrue, nothing 
vulgar, you had better forget yourself altogether and 
think only of the audience, how to get them and how to 
hold them. Keep your mind fixed upon your hearers 
and upon the end in view, whether it be to please 
or to convince. Appreciation will come if it is deserved, 
and will come all the more if you do not too obviously 
play for it. 

You will sometimes make failures, for nobody is 
always at his best. Do not be discouraged. The 
fault may not be your own, for much depends on con- 
ditions you cannot command. But when you feel you 
have fallen below the best that you can do, ask your- 
self why, and if the fault is in yourself, try to correct 
it next time. 



SPECIAL AND GENERAL EDUCATION IN 
UNIVERSITIES 

ADDRESS DELIVERED ON COMMEMORATION DAY AT JOHNS HOPKINS 
UNIVERSITY, BALTIMORE, FEBRUARY 220, 1911. 



ADDRESS DELIVERED ON COMMEMORATION DAY AT JOHNS HOPKINS 
UNIVERSITY, BALTIMORE, FEBRUARY 220, 1911. 

YOUR University looks back to-day upon thirty-five 
years of educational work which has been of permanent 
significance for all the seats of learning and study in 
the English-speaking countries of the world. The 
conception of creating a University which should 
provide in various branches of knowledge advanced 
courses to be taken by men who had completed 
their general liberal education, was then a compara- 
tively novel one in those countries ; and it requires 
an effort to carry oneself back to a time when the 
now elaborate machinery of post-graduate courses, 
which has been spreading itself through the leading 
universities in the United States, did not exist. To the 
Johns Hopkins University belongs the honour of having 
first put into practice this fertile conception, and of 
having carried it out with a thoroughness to which its 
diffusion and its success are very largely due. The 
name of your late admirable President will always be 
associated in the educational history of North America 
with this epoch-making " new departure," and the 

301 



302 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

University has always since lived up to the standard 
of thoroughness, and preference of real work to dis- 
play, from which it started. Its adherence to that 
standard, its continued embodiment of the ideal of 
scientific perfection, have given it the position of in- 
fluence and dignity which it now occupies in the 
world. 

A remarkable feature of the thirty-five years over 
which you look back is the wonderful development of 
many departments of human knowledge, and espe- 
cially of those which are concerned with the sciences 
of nature, into special branches, each of which has been 
tending to become more distinct from the others. So 
far from finding ourselves approaching the end of 
knowledge, we find that the more we know the more 
remains beyond to be known, and that the realm of 
the unknown seems to be steadily increasing with 
every addition to our knowledge. It is as though the 
particular path which we are following was always di- 
verging into a number of different paths which tend to 
separate from one another, and each of which leads into 
untrodden solitudes to which we see no end. Within 
the recollection of most of us, new branches of science 
have made good their place, and have become recog- 
nized as separate fields of enquiry, and along with 
this it has befallen that the great majority of scientific 
enquirers now begin, as soon as their general scientific 
education has been completed, to devote themselves 
to one particular branch of investigation and throw 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 303 

their whole energy into pushing it forward. A man 
is now not a "natural philosopher" in the old sense 
of the term, but belongs to some one of the specific 
branches into which natural philosophy has become 
divided. The mass of papers and articles upon all 
the branches of science that fills the weekly and 
monthly and quarterly and yearly magazines and 
reports of proceedings of learned bodies in all civil- 
ized countries, is now so vast that the most powerful 
intellect cannot follow and keep pace with what is 
being accomplished even in its own special branch. 
Indices and books designed to be guides to the ever 
accumulating pile increase in number, but do not 
meet our needs. In chemistry, for instance, there is 
published every year a body of facts greater than all that 
stood recorded in the days of Black and Priestley. 
The same thing has happened in those practical arts 
which depend upon the application of science. They, 
too, have multiplied by division, and thus new prac- 
tical professions, each employing many thousands of 
persons, such as photography and electrical engineer- 
ing, have grown up, which were unknown seventy 
years ago. 

The same thing has, of necessity, happened in uni- 
versity education. We have now in all duly organized 
universities professors of a large number of distinct 
branches of knowledge which were formerly lumped 
together as being one branch under one professor. 
When I was a student in the University of Glasgow, 



304 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and also in that of Oxford, I remember that there 
was in each but one professor of physics. 

So also among students the tendency is for those who 
have advanced some way to begin to concentrate their 
efforts upon one particular line of study and investi- 
gation. Both the teacher and the student are naturally 
fascinated by the prospect of discovery. The professor 
likes best to lecture upon the subject in which he is 
pushing forward his own investigations, and the stu- 
dent is able to find in them the most attractive field 
of experimental research. 

This sort of specialization has become inevitable, 
but there is a consequence attached to it which ap- 
pears almost equally inevitable, yet in some aspects 
regrettable. Part of the time which was previously 
given to general study, i.e. to a knowledge both of nat- 
ural science in general and of other non-scientific sub- 
jects, must needs be now devoted to this special study. 

The field of nature is unlimited. Human curiosity 
is unlimited. But human life and the capacity for 
using our time and our powers in the acquisition of 
knowledge remain within very narrow bounds. It 
would be rash to set limits to what scientific research, 
such as that which members of the brilliant medical 
faculty of this University carry on, may effect in 
the way both of extending human life and of mak- 
ing health more vigorous and thus improving the 
working powers of the mind. Still, life is short, ter- 
ribly short for all that we want to learn and do, and 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 305 

there is no present prospect that it will be much pro- 
longed. Has it not sometimes occurred to you what 
a pity it is that the immense length of working years 
which mankind is said to have enjoyed in the days 
before the Flood, when scientific investigations, so far 
as we know, were slender, and directed to purely prac- 
tical ends, could not have been reserved for times like 
our own, in which a long life is more needed for utiliz- 
ing the accumulated knowledge and skill a great 
scholar and student can bring to bear upon the ma- 
terials that now lie before us ? What might not Dar- 
win or Helmholtz or Kelvin or Mommsen or Ranke or 
the distinguished historian whom America has lately 
lost, Mr. Henry C. Lea, have accomplished with a 
working life extended in some proportion to the vaster 
fields of enquiry that attract us to-day ? 

The problem which now confronts us in all univer- 
sities is how to find time both for these specialized 
studies, which are daily becoming more absorbing, and 
also for the obtaining that kind of survey and com- 
prehension of the general field of human knowledge 
which is necessary hi order to make the university 
graduate a truly educated and cultivated man, capable 
of seeing the relation of his own particular study to 
others and of appreciating the various methods by 
which discovery is prosecuted. This problem of recon- 
ciling special with general study, although most urgent 
hi the sciences of nature, shows itself in what may be 
called the human subjects also. In history, for instance, 



306 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

one now finds people who devote themselves entirely 
to one period of history, and will complacently tell 
you, when a question belonging to some other time is 
raised, that they know nothing about it because it is 
"not hi their period." So there are people who give 
themselves up so entirely to the study of economic 
history that they may know very little of civil or 
ecclesiastical history in general. 

However, it is chiefly in the sciences of nature that 
the difficulty I am referring to arises. These are now 
tending to overshadow all other studies, partly be- 
cause the numerous practical applications to which 
they are turned have acquired immense industrial 
importance for men and nations, and partly also 
because we are all fascinated by the progress of dis- 
covery, and are so eager to attain certitude that we 
are disposed to turn from those enquiries in which 
complete certitude is unattainable to those in which 
the laws of nature provide an absolutely firm basis. 
And it is in the natural sciences that the subdivision 
and specialization referred to have gone farthest. 

The problem has accordingly two aspects. It 
raises the question of a mastery of the principles 
of the sciences of nature hi general as against a 
highly specialized study of some one department in 
those sciences. It also raises the question of the re- 
spective claims of the study of physical science, or 
some branch of it, as against the claims of what may 
be called the human sciences, or, if you prefer it, hu- 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 307 

manistic subjects. It is upon this latter aspect that 
I have a few observations to submit. 

What do we mean by general intellectual cultivation 
as opposed to special knowledge ? Without attempt- 
ing a complete definition nothing is more dangerous 
than a definition I will suggest a description. We 
mean such a knowledge of the main facts and distinc- 
tive methods of various branches of human knowledge 
as furnishes a general idea of the relations of each 
branch to other branches; that is to say, a comprehen- 
sion of what truth and certitude mean in different de- 
partments of study, and of what are the various paths 
by which truth may be reached or approached. Were 
I asked to indicate what this would include, I should 
make some such answer as this : In the sphere of 
natural science, it would include a knowledge not 
necessarily wide, but sound and exact so far as it went, 
of a deductive science such as geometry, and of some 
science of observation such as a branch of natural his- 
tory, geology, for instance, or some department of 
biology, or of such an experimental science as chemis- 
try. On the human side, it would include a knowl- 
edge of one at least among what may be called the 
more abstract subjects, such as psychology (in the 
older sense) or logic or ethics, and of one of the more 
observational subjects such as economics or politics. 
It would include a knowledge of the principles of 
language, and of at least one foreign tongue, ancient 
or modern, preferably an inflected tongue possess- 



308 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

ing a literature. And, finally, it must include the 
record of human effort and development through 
the ages, that is to say, history, which shows us how 
man has grown from what he was in the past to be 
what he is in the present, and holds out hopes of what 
he may be hi the future. Without at least an elemen- 
tary knowledge of these matters, no man is properly 
equipped for a life of study and thought, or for those 
branches of the practical work of life which require a 
wide intellectual outlook. It is not necessary to-day, 
as it would have been fifty years ago, to argue that 
every educated man should have some knowledge of 
deductive science and of the observational and experi- 
mental sciences of nature. But it is beginning to be 
necessary to vindicate for the other great department 
of enquiry, that which relates to Man, its rightful 
place in a general scheme of education. 

Specialization is not only inevitable for the progress 
of discovery, but in many minor ways excellent. It is 
a splendid thing for a great university like this to have 
among its professors men each of whom is abreast of 
the highest development of some particular line of en- 
quiry and knows how that line of enquiry ought to be 
prosecuted, so that it holds within its own walls, so to 
speak, an accumulated mass of various knowledge, rep- 
resenting that to which the world has yet attained. The 
scientific specialist makes interesting company when 
I have a chance I always try to get beside him at 
dinner because he is able to tell us what we seek to 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 309 

know of the progress of discovery in the growing 
sciences, and we have only to interrogate him to get 
at once, without the labour of consulting books, the lat- 
est results in the clearest form. The scientific investi- 
gator, moreover, seems to have on the whole the happi- 
est kind of life that is now possible. Does he know 
how happy he is ? Engaged in the discovery of truth, he 
has for his helpers all others engaged in the same pur- 
suit, and feels that all his labours are working to- 
wards a noble and useful end. He is free from the 
vexations that beset the business man or the lawyer 
or the politician. He depends on no man's favour. 
He is not expected to say anything of whose truth he 
entertains secret doubts. If he has not a happy life, 
granted good health, it is probably his own fault, for 
what more can one desire than to be, as Bacon says, 
the interpreter as well as the servant of Nature ? 

Admitting all this, and much more that might be 
said about the interest and pleasure of enquiry con- 
centrated on one department, it is nevertheless right 
to present to you some dangers that seem to arise 
from the immense extension of the specializing ten- 
dency and from the predominance, in particular, of the 
study of the natural sciences to the exclusion of other 
topics. We are accustomed to divide the subjects of 
enquiry into two great departments ; those, the human 
subjects, in which we deal with probable matter, and 
that field of Nature in which all is fixed, certain, posi- 
tive, immutable. Some one may, to be sure, remark 



310 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

that the phenomena of nature may possibly be under- 
going some slow process of change. We cannot be 
sure that oxygen and hydrogen may not be different 
now from what they once were, or that alterations 
may not conceivably occur in the proportion of the 
constituents present in compound chemical bodies. 
However that is all speculation. For our present pur- 
poses, we think of the sciences of nature as being occu- 
pied with that which is permanent and unchangeable. 
They deal with those laws which we believe, so far as 
our knowledge goes, to be immutable, to have been 
operative in the past and likely to be operative in the 
future, even as they are operative now. Now he whose 
whole time and thoughts are given to the study of 
these unchanging laws does not learn thereby how to 
deal with that which is mutable and transient. But 
the mutable and the transient include not only most 
of what concerns our daily life, but the whole immense 
field of knowledge which covers the human subjects. 
Here we deal not with the Certain but with the 
Probable. The realm of ideas, beliefs, theories, 
emotions, institutions, habits, in fact, the entire 
realm of human thought, human society, human 
conduct, belongs to the sphere of the transitory and 
changeable. In investigating the phenomena of this 
realm, we have to walk by methods which are not 
only not the same as those which belong to the sci- 
ences of nature, but differ from the latter by being 
far more intricate. The investigation of probable 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 311 

matter is more perplexing and less satisfying because 
its results are less definite and positive than are those 
enquiries at the end of which stands, like a statue 
closing a vista between trees, the figure of certain and 
immutable Truth. Those accordingly who try to ap- 
ply to the human subjects the same formulae and 
methods which they apply to nature are in danger of 
failing when they enter the field which includes his- 
tory and all political or social phenomena. Differences 
in the subject matter imply differences in the proper 
mode of treatment. As men erred five centuries ago 
when they tried to explain nature by applying to her 
their own crudely formed abstract notions, so now it 
is an error to think that in probable matter the methods 
applicable to natural phenomena can be so applied as to 
attain equally certain and definite conclusions. Does it 
not follow that an education in the methods proper to 
these last-named historical and social fields is as needful 
as is a knowledge of the methods of physical enquiry ? 
Sixty years ago people complained, and complained 
justly, of the narrowness of those persons, some of 
them of the highest eminence, who had been trained 
entirely on the old scheme of education, which largely 
consisted in grammatical studies, and especially in a 
knowledge of the ancient languages. Men so trained, 
men highly gifted and instructed, often failed to appre- 
ciate the interest and value of the study of nature, and 
showed a strange incapacity to understand the processes 
it employs. I remember some such among our leading 



312 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

English statesmen. A whole world of interests and 
pleasures was closed to them by an ignorance that was 
too often self-complacent. In travelling, for instance, 
distinguished historians did not see, because they had 
not been taught to observe, all sorts of natural features 
in a country which might have helped them to under- 
stand its history. Bacon has warned us against that ab- 
sorption in a particular set of ideas, that prepossession 
in favor of one particular view which he classes among 
the Idola Specus, the phantasms of the Cave, which 
surround the man who sits in the dark recesses of his 
own remote and secluded thought unillummed by the 
light of the broad sky. So now the devotion to any 
special study, whether in the sphere of natural science 
or in any other, tends to narrow the mind and prevents 
its faculties from attaining their highest development. 
Many of the greatest discoveries have arisen from 
bringing together facts and ideas drawn from different 
regions whose relations had not previously been dis- 
cerned. The more you extend the range of knowledge, 
the more you increase the chances of such discoveries. 
Most of the great men to whom the progress of science 
is due were in their early days trained not as specialists, 
but had minds that ranged far and wide like keen- 
eyed eagles over the vast field of knowledge. 

The chief end of education is to stimulate curiosity, 
to make a man ask about all things, be they familiar 
or unfamiliar, the How and the Why, to discover 
matter for enquiry in facts which other people have 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 313 

passed over without thinking of the problems they 
suggest, to retain that activity and versatility and 
freshness which are the most characteristic marks of 
a forceful and creative intellect. Is it not wonderful 
how many things were overlooked in the past which 
we now perceive to need investigation ? The ancients, 
both hi the Greek and in the Italian lands, must, for 
instance, have noticed how various are the aspects and 
structure of different kinds of rock. The differences 
between gneiss and limestone, between basalt and 
slate, stared them in the face. They saw fossil shells 
hi the strata. But though observant men like Herod- 
otus sometimes noted facts which suggested the work- 
ing of forces that had changed the earth's surface, it 
did not occur to them to seek any general explana- 
tion of these phenomena, and geological science is not 
yet two centuries old. So ancient observers described 
plants and were interested in their pharmaceutical 
properties; they described tribes of men and some- 
times raised questions as to their forms of speech, but 
it did not occur to them to classify either the plants or 
languages on any scientific principles. Hippocrates 
was a great physician, scientific in his methods. Why 
did his successors not carry them on with a persever- 
ance and exactitude which would have produced great 
results? Was it because they had given themselves 
too much to the study of words and of rhetoric, and 
because their brilliant dialectical gifts had drawn them 
away from the observation of facts? One wonders 



UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

how it happened that a race so wonderfully gifted as 
were the Greeks, who seemed frequently on the very 
edge of great discoveries in physical science, did 
not find and pursue the paths which have led us 
to the unveiling of the secrets of Nature. And one 
wonders also whether there are any phenomena which 
we now are passing by unexamined because it has 
never struck us that they deserve enquiry. 

The wider the range of a man's interests, the more 
susceptible he is to ideas of many kinds, so much greater 
is the pleasure which life can afford him, and so much 
the better can he contribute to the progress of the 
world both by stimulating others and by himself 
pointing out the way in which advances can be made. 
Different as are the phenomena in different parts of 
the field of knowledge, and different in some re- 
spects as are even the methods to be applied, the habit 
of keen observation and steady reflection formed in any 
department quickens a man's powers in every other; 
and just as an historian will profit by knowing some- 
thing of geology or botany, so a student of natural 
history may profit by knowing how the human mind 
used to approach nature before our modern methods 
had come into being. A university has to think not 
only of forming specialists, but of making these special- 
ists better by giving them a wide range of knowledge, 
and still more of sending out men who sustain the level 
of taste and insight in the whole community and are 
fit to be its intellectual leaders. ' 



SPECIALISM IN UNIVERSITY EDUCATION 315 

You may ask how time is to be found both for special 
studies and for the sort of general cultivation that I 
have tried to describe. Must the general studies pre- 
cede specialization, or is it possible to carry them on 
together, and to show young men, even in their last uni- 
versity year, how to correlate their special scientific stud- 
ies with a mastery of other fields ? These are practical 
questions which I must leave to your superior com- 
petence. The principle which we seem chiefly called 
upon to uphold is the principle of breadth and catholic- 
ity in education, the recognition not only of the duty of 
a great university to provide teaching in all the main 
subjects, but also of the truth that a one-sided educa- 
tion is an imperfect education. The error of those 
who a century ago deemed a grammatical and literary 
curriculum sufficient was no greater than is that of 
those who now dispute and seek to exclude the hu- 
man subjects ; or who hold that any single branch 
either of the human or of the natural subjects is 
enough to inform the mind or to develop and polish 
it to its highest efficiency. 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 

ADDRESS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CHAPTER OF THE 
&lt;J&gt;BK SOCIETY, APRIL, 1911. 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 

ADDRESS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CHAPTER or THE 
4&gt;BK SOCIETY, APRIL, 1911. 

NOT long ago I read in an American novel this 
sentence : "The life of an American man is Business." 
If this merely meant that Business is the dominant fea- 
ture in the life of the United States, occupying most 
of men's time and thoughts, it is true, and scarcely less 
true of such countries as England and Germany. As it 
is everybody's first need everywhere to make an income 
sufficient to support himself and his family, so in a 
country which is still hi the stage of swift material 
development and where opportunities abound for the 
exercise of practical talent and the amassing of large 
fortunes, commerce and industry and such professions 
as engineering and law must necessarily hold the fore- 
most place. 

But the sentence may also mean that the normal 
American man thinks and cares for nothing but business ; 
and that was probably the sense intended by the writer. 
If this were true, you as University men would think 
it ought not to be true, and would deem it disparag- 
ing to your universities. Of all the countries of the 
world, the United States is that in which the largest 

319 



320 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

proportion of university graduates enter a business 
career, or conversely, it is the country in which the 
largest proportion of men engaged in business have 
received a university education. Now one main use 
of that education is to prevent business from being the 
whole of an American man's life; in other words, its 
aim is to give him intellectual interests and tastes 
outside business. Whatever a man's active career, 
be it commercial business or any other, he finds it hard 
to maintain those other interests under the constant 
pressure of the practical work of life. That is why 
university teaching ought to try to root them so deeply 
in the mind and give them such a hold on our affection 
that they will resist the pressure. 

Two generations ago the study of ancient literature 
held a foremost place among those intellectual interests, 
and not a few university men used to go on reading and 
drawing pleasure from the Greek and Latin classics 
through the whole of their lives. These writings 
had become a part of their minds. Few men so read 
now; few in Europe, still fewer here. The study of 
Latin has shrunk to narrow dimensions, and that of 
Greek is in many universities practically extinct. In the 
West both languages are more studied by women 
than by men. An association has, however, been 
founded for defending, and if possible extending, 
classical studies. As its headquarters are planted in 
this great university, you may naturally wish to hear 
some remarks upon the case to be made for those 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 321 

studies, for they can no longer rely on tradition but 
must support their claim by definite and positive argu- 
ments which will appeal to a public that is now, both 
in Europe and here, bent upon the practically useful, 
and somewhat prejudiced against every habit which 
the (now discredited) "wisdom of our ancestors" 
favoured. 

Let us begin by frankly admitting that the excessive 
importance given a century ago to the languages of 
Greece and Rome has prejudiced them in the modern 
eye. The claims made for them were so extravagant as 
to have disparaged their real merits. We may more- 
over doubt whether some of the arguments used on 
their behalf have much weight. Grammar is a useful 
study if taught in a rational way, so as to induce 
thought, and not by forcing wretched children to 
repeat its rules by rote. It is also true that the 
grammar of inflected and synthetic languages affords 
better mental training than does that of French or 
German, which it is proposed to substitute for Latin, 
not to speak of English, the grammar of which is 
perhaps better left untaught altogether. Nevertheless, 
the advantages of learning Greek and Latin grammar 
have been exaggerated, and it has absorbed an undue 
share of the learner's time and toil. 

It used also to be argued that a knowledge of Latin 
was serviceable because it explained the etymology of 
many English words, and because it was a gateway lead- 
ing into the modern Romance languages. Both con- 



322 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

siderations have a certain weight, but in education there 
are now so many subjects competing for the student's 
time that a stronger case must be made for each sub- 
ject than was thought necessary two centuries ago. 
More importance may perhaps be allowed to the 
argument that the learning of any language besides 
one's own is of value to the mind, because the mere 
process of turning thought expressed in one set of 
words into another set of words is in itself a training in 
thought, and tends to enlarge the range of a man's 
ideas by suggesting different ways of expressing them. 
But there again, though the argument is a sound one, 
it has not proved sufficient to carry conviction to any 
minds except those who have given serious thought to 
educational subjects. Most people say that the result 
is not adequate to the tune spent hi learning an ancient 
language, and that if it is desirable to possess some 
language besides one's own, why not learn French or 
German or Spanish, in which there is a prospect of an 
immediate return of profit upon the capital of the tune 
invested by the learner. 

You have got to face the fact that to the large major- 
ity of men nowadays, whatever relates to the past 
seems obsolete and useless "What difference can it 
make to us now," they say, "what men did or wrote or 
thought twenty centuries ago ? Their ideas may have 
been good when first expressed, but we have got far 
beyond them. They supposed that the sun went round 
the earth. They did not use steam or electricity, and 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 323 

did not even know the composition of air and of water. 
Of what value can their writings be to us ? " 

Even those of your antagonists who admit the value 
and charm of good literature will tell you that there is 
in our own language literature more than sufficient 
to occupy all the time that the learner can spare for 
that side of education. "If few persons know more 
than three or four plays of Shakespeare, if few edu- 
cated men of this generation have read through 
Paradise Lost, why send us to Homer or ^Eschylus 
when we can get what is just as good in our own 
tongue and yet do not generally care to get it ? " 

These are the views, this is the attitude of mind 
which confronts you hi your efforts to advocate the 
study of the ancient classics. Your difficulty is that 
there is very little common ground between you and 
them. Your conception of education differs from that 
which is now popular, and your sense of the value of the 
ancient classics is incommunicable, because it springs 
from a personal knowledge which nowadays com- 
paratively few possess. 

Accordingly, in suggesting to you what seem to me 
the strongest considerations by which your contention 
can be supported, I must make two preliminary 
remarks. 

One is that I submit these considerations in no belief 
that they will prove effective with those you seek to 
convince. They are given only in the hope that they 
may confirm you in your own convictions, and possi- 



324 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

bly make clearer to you the grounds of those convic- 
tions. 

The other remark is that it is too late to attempt to 
restore to Greek and Latin the place they held in the 
scheme of liberal education seventy years ago. It is 
not to be desired that they should recover it, because 
the percentage of pupils who derived substantial 
and permanent profit was a small percentage. You 
may say that this was largely due to the unintelligent 
character of the old teaching, which dwelt upon gram- 
mar and neglected literature. Still the fact remains 
that under any system of teaching more than a half of 
the boys in schools and undergraduates in colleges 
who may be taught Latin, and five-sixths of those 
who may be taught Greek, will not get far enough to 
enjoy the literature and give it a permanent hold on 
their minds. Your efforts must, therefore, be directed 
towards securing that there shall always be a provision 
of classical teaching sufficient to enable those who 
show aptitude for these studies to pursue them, and 
that the universities shall, by their degree regulations, 
or otherwise, impress upon the student the high value 
attaching to such a mastery of the two languages as 
will open to him the enjoyment of the literatures they 
contain. How many thousands of students annually 
graduate in the faculty of arts from all the universities 
of the United States I do not know doubtless more 
than ten thousand. What you desire is, I assume, 
that of these thousands of graduates there should always 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 325 

be some hundreds (besides those who intend to be 
clergymen or university teachers) who can read Herod- 
otus and Plato with pleasure, and when they wish to 
be sure of the meaning of a passage in the New Testa- 
ment will go to the original Greek for help. 

Now can we find grounds to show that it is in the 
interest of the nation that there should always be, say, 
this five per cent or upwards. You probably agree in the 
view that it is in the literature of the ancient languages 
that their real value lies, not in a knowledge of their 
grammar, nor in the help they can afford to the lawyer 
or physician or clergyman in his profession, consider- 
able as that help may be. What then is the special 
value of these ancient literatures? Do they give us 
anything, and if so, what, that we cannot equally well 
obtain from modern literature ? 

There has never been an era in the history of the 
civilized peoples when they were all so entirely and 
almost exclusively occupied with the present as they are 
to-day. The Romano-Hellenic world lived upon the 
Greek literature of the times from Homer downwards 
and based education upon it. In the Dark Ages and 
Middle Ages men were constantly looking back to 
the ancient world as a sort of golden age and were 
cherishing every fragment that had come down to 
them therefrom. The scholars and thinkers of the 
Renaissance who obtained those Greek books for 
which their predecessors had vainly sighed, drew from 
those books their inspiration. It was they that lit 



326 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

up the fires of new literary effort in Italy, France, 
Spain, Germany, Britain; and thereafter two cen- 
turies were spent in commenting on and imitating the 
classical authors. The Bible and the Fathers of the 
Church had been the intellectual food of the clergy 
down to the age of the Reformation, and from that 
tune Protestants as well as Roman Catholics were 
employed till the middle of the eighteenth century 
in expounding and arguing about the doctrines of 
Christianity. All through those centuries, past events 
and past writings occupied the minds of men (though 
history was not much taught as history) and were 
a large part of the instruction given in schools and 
universities. Many ancient books continued to be 
treated as models of excellence long after some better 
books on similar subjects had been produced in a 
modern tongue. Even in this new country, the edu- 
cated men of your Revolutionary period were brought 
up on Greek and Latin authors and learnt a great 
deal about the ancient world. You had not then made 
history for yourselves. In our time, however, we see 
phenomena altogether different. Theology engages 
much less of the average man's thoughts, while persons 
of a specially religious cast of mind are occupied far 
more with good works and what are called social ques- 
tions than with the Bible or Christian history. 

Natural science has filled the void left by the dimin- 
ished interest in the things of the past. It concerns 
itself entirely with the present, or rather with a world 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 327 

in which time does not exist and in which therefore 
there is no past. Even among those who know little 
or nothing about any branch of science the impression 
prevails that science and its applications are the form 
of knowledge that now counts for success in life. 

The social and political changes in progress since 1789, 
and most evidently during the last thirty years both 
here and hi Europe, have raised in the social scale, and 
have provided instruction for, classes which had been 
previously illiterate, so that the standard in literature, 
and especially in ephemeral literature, is no longer 
fixed by a small, highly educated class, but is the result- 
ant of the tastes and notions of various classes, some 
of them on a low level of knowledge. Newspapers, in 
particular, are written primarily with a view to circu- 
lation, and to the income from advertisements which 
circulation insures; that is, they are written for the 
masses of the people. Now for the masses, the past, 
with its heroes, its achievements, its literature, has 
little meaning. Their education has not given them 
the opportunity of knowing or caring about it. Their 
rise has increased the already overmastering impulse 
towards elements of practical utility in education. 

There used to be one fountain whence the whole 
body of the people drew ideas that carried them back 
into the past and touched their imagination by pre- 
senting figures and scenes very unlike their own daily 
life. That was the Bible. It is now unhappily less 
familiar than formerly to every class in the community. 



328 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

A smaller proportion of both the richer and the poorer 
classes attend church than was the case a century ago, 
and whoever has been in the habit, in public addresses, 
of referring or alluding to Biblical incidents or of using 
Biblical phrases, perceives that he cannot now assume, 
as he could have done forty years ago, that a large pro- 
portion of his audience would recognize the reference 
or the phrase. 

Thus in many ways and through divers influences, 
men of to-day are now more purely children of the 
present than was any previous generation. This is 
even more true of North America than of Europe, for 
here there are far fewer things to recall the past, fewer 
links binding the present to it. Among the mass of 
the people interest in the past goes back hardly farther 
than to the Revolutionary War, and it is only the ex- 
cellent society of Colonial Dames who exert themselves 
to recall to the public events of earlier date. Only the 
best educated men seem to duly realize the continuity 
of American history with European history, and to feel 
that all that happened in Europe before the middle of 
the seventeenth century, as well as a good deal that has 
happened since, is a part of your American history 
and has gone to the making you what you are. 

Now although the world may be weary of the past, as 
Shelley said a hundred years ago, it cannot shake itself 
clear of the past. You here and we in Europe may be 
eagerly bent on the future, resolved to make it better for 
the bulk of mankind than the past has been. But we 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 329 

can conjecture the future only from what we know of 
the past, that is to say, from what we know of human 
nature and the processes by which it and human 
institutions change. One who knows only his own 
country and people does not really know them, because 
it is only by knowing something of other countries 
and their peoples that he can tell which characteristics 
of his own people are normal, generally present in all 
peoples, and which are peculiar to his own. So, likewise, 
he who knows only his own time does not really know it, 
for he cannot distinguish between the characteristics that 
are transient and those that are permanent. This is the 
main use of history, besides of course the pleasure which 
all knowledge gives. To know what we are, we must 
know how we came to be what we are, and must realize 
that we shall before long pass into something different. 

A profitable knowledge of history consists not so 
much in remembering events, wars and treaties, and 
the making of constitutions and the reigns and charac- 
ters of kings or presidents, as in knowing what men 
were like in the days that are gone. What were their 
aims and hopes and pleasures and beliefs? How did 
they think and feel ? 

The best source of that knowledge is, for any period 
of the past, to be found in the literature it produced, 
for that was the natural expression of its life, given 
forth through its more gifted spirits, and that is a record 
which, being contemporary and spontaneous, cannot 
have been perverted, as narratives of fact sometimes 



330 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

are, by those who come after. Thus the periods which 
we can study with most profit are those which have left 
us not only a record of events, but also a rich and 
noble literature contemporaneous with the events 
through which the soul of the people, its ideas and its 
impulses, revealed itself hi action. History is the study 
of human nature and is best studied when one has the 
means of interpreting men's acts by their thoughts and 
their thoughts by their acts. Literature gives a picture 
which is in so far imperfect that it tells us less than we 
desire to know about the ordinary man because it 
proceeds from the more powerful minds who have the 
faculty of expression. But it speaks with a compensat- 
ing vividity. 

Nobody can hope to comprehend many historical 
periods through their literature as well as by familiarity 
with their events. We must select a few for study. 
Now there is one period which has three recommenda- 
tions making it more instructive than any other. It is 
the best general introduction to all historical study and 
to all literary study. This is the classical age of Greece 
and Rome, and the three things that recommend it 
are the following: 

I. It is the beginning of literature and practically 
the beginning of history, its first great product, the 
Homeric poems, antedating even the earliest prophets 
of Israel whose utterances have come down to us in the 
Old Testament. As the most beautiful hour of the 
day is the Dawn, though city dwellers seldom see it, 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 331 

and as the most winning time of the year is the Spring, 
so there is a peculiar charm in the first efforts man 
made in the supreme art of poetry. Simplicity and 
directness, sometimes joined to exuberant imagination, 
delight us in most of the earlier literature of all nations. 
We find them in the old Celtic poetry and the old 
Arabian poetry, in the Eddaic poems and the Sagas of 
Iceland, in the Lay of the Nibelungs, in the Vedas, in 
the ballads of our own race, from the song of the battle 
of Brunanburh, down to the ballads of Chevy Chase 
and Flodden. But in the early poetry of Greece these 
qualities are united to a constructive power and an 
artistic sense which can be found nowhere else. Even 
in the Attic dramatists and the later Greek lyrists 
something of the primal simplicity remains. 

II. The literature and institutions and civilization of 
Greece and Rome are for all the modern nations the 
first fountain heads of that European civilization 
which has swept down to us in a widened current. 
Art, the drama, philosophy, geometry, speculations in 
the field of politics as well as hi the fields of physical 
enquiry, all begin with the Greeks : there is hardly a 
branch of intellectual achievement that is not traceable 
to them. So from Rome descend the institutions of 
law and government under which the modern world 
lives, though modified in Great Britain and America 
by Teutonic ideas and traditions. In the history of 
the ancients we see our own beginnings and compre- 
hend them better. We see also the environment into 



332 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

which Christianity was born and the influences that 
affected its growth, moulded its forms of worship, gave 
it a dogmatic system and a hierarchy. No later period 
has therefore the same importance for modern peoples as 
that of Romano-Hellenic civilization, for out of it there 
sprang that which is common to all the nations of the 
modern world and which they possess as a joint heritage. 
III. The literature of these two languages better 
illustrates their history, and the history stands in closer 
relation to the literature, than is the case with any 
other of the more recent national literatures. It is, 
moreover, all the fitter to be studied, because while it 
is as a whole scanty, compared with modern literature, 
it contains an unusually large proportion of work of ex- 
traordinary merit. We are accustomed to deplore the 
loss of many works of great ancient authors. Some 
have specially mourned over the lost books of Livy and 
Tacitus, some over Lucilius and Varro, some over what 
has perished of ^schylus, but perhaps the greatest loss 
has been that of nearly all the Greek lyric poetry except 
the Odes of Pindar. Still we may console ourselves with 
the reflection that so much that has reached us came 
from the pens of the best writers, and that so much of 
what has survived is first-rate. No people, not even 
the Italian, has produced so large a body of poetry of 
the highest order as the Greeks did, except our own 
English or British stock. It is the union of the histor- 
ical interest which the Greek republics inspire with the 
splendour of the literature they produced that gives to 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 333 

both of them their unique charm. Works quite as 
great have been produced since. Modern literature is 
not only far wider in its range but richer in the variety 
of its content. It is dangerous to speak of ancient 
literature as a whole, for great is the diversity be- 
tween the earliest Greek poets and the later writers, 
either Greek or Roman. But nearly all, as compared 
with the modern, have that special flavour and charm, 
and also that special value for this old and complex 
civilization of ours which the efforts of a joyous, vigor- 
ous, and sensitive race possess. 

III. Just as the political ideas of Greece and the 
political institutions of Rome were a point of departure 
for the modern world, so Greek and Latin authors, and 
especially the poets, have become the common stock of 
the learned men, the thinkers and the writers, of all 
modern countries. They formed the mind of Europe 
from the fifteenth till the eighteenth century. Their 
ideas, their literary forms, their canons of taste, are 
the foundation of that general modern culture which 
educated men are still assumed to possess. No other 
literature, except the Bible and a very few of what may 
be called the classic books of Christianity, is in the 
same sense a link between different nations and has 
become equally the property of all. 

These are some of the reasons which give its incom- 
parable value and stimulative power to the history, and 
still more to the literature, of classical antiquity. It 
can never grow old, for it has the vivacity and 



334 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

vitality of youth. Its ideas retain their charm, partly 
because they are simple, partly because they are ex- 
pressed with unrivalled felicity. They light up the 
history of their times because the life and mind of the 
people speak so directly through them. This undying 
freshness gives them that strange quality of seeming at 
once so far off and so near, just as our own earliest boy- 
hood often seems nearer to us than do the years of middle 
life because it has the vividness of first impressions. 
Here, however, let me stop to answer an objection 
that will be made to the arguments I have been trying 
to present. "Assuming" so the objector will say 
" the value of ancient literature for historical purposes 
to be all that you represent, cannot that value be 
secured by reading the books in translations? Why 
take out of the few student years, already overcrowded 
by the claims of other and more obviously necessary 
studies, the time needed to master two languages 
which are confessedly of little practical utility to-day. 
Literature can be enjoyed in translations. The Ger- 
mans who read Shakespeare in a translation appreciate 
him quite as much as we do, in fact some of them think 
he must have been a German. Goethe's criticisms 
on his plays are the best that have ever been made. 
We read and enjoy in English versions the Icelandic 
Sagas, and Don Quixote, and many another great work. 
The Bible itself formed the mind of mediaeval Europe 
in a Latin version and thereafter formed the mind 
of post-mediaeval Britain and America in an English 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 335 

version, and that version is admittedly equal in beauty 
to the Hebrew text of the Old Testament, and superior 
to the Greek text of the New." 

Our answer to this is that no translation gives, or 
comes near giving, the effect which the ancient classics 
produce when read hi the original. The charm of 
that form is incommunicable, for the magic of words 
rests largely in their associations, and in what may be 
called the sympathy of sense and sound. The delicate 
fragrance of the ideas in their native form evaporates 
in the attempt to pour thought from the vessel of one 
language into that of another. This is especially true 
of poetry, and more true of philosophy, in which so 
much turns upon the use of precise terms, than it is of 
history or of oratory. In stating and arguing about 
facts, less depends upon the suggestive quality of the 
words and upon their rhythm than when feeling as well 
as reason is addressed, either in verse or in imaginative 
prose. To estimate exactly how much is lost in trans- 
lation is not easy, because whoever having read a great 
book first in its original language reads it thereafter in 
a translation is so struck by the loss as to undervalue 
the latter : and it rarely happens that anyone who reads 
such a book first hi a translation afterwards reads it in 
the original. Many of you may have had with Dante 
the experience which was mine, that little pleasure 
can be derived from any translation and less from 
verse than from prose translations and that the 
splendour and power of the poet are not realized till he 



336 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

is studied in the difficult Italian of his time. A trans- 
lation, if fairly literal, is of course better than nothing. 
But nobody can feel the true charm of the Greek 
writers, nor of Virgil, nor perhaps even of Lucretius and 
Catullus, except in the original. The original is the 
only door through which we can enter into the life and 
thought of the ancient world, near us because it is 
simple, yet mysterious because it is remote. 

The teachings of the ancients are precious, although 
they come from afar, since we obtain from them a 
picture of a sphere of thought and emotion unlike our 
own, and therefore fitted to correct the narrowness 
which rests content in its own modernity, and which 
cannot feel after the future because it does not compre- 
hend the variety of experiences that have moulded 
man in the past. 

It is in this sense of a long and rich past and in the 
fuller and finer appreciation of poetic beauty which 
ancient literature gives that its true worth lies, not in 
grammar, not in quarries of etymological or philological 
enquiry, not in any professional uses to which scholar- 
ship can be turned. The practical use to be held out, 
the fair guerdon to be won, is Enjoyment, a unique kind 
of enjoyment. Sometimes one feels as if it were worth 
while to learn Greek merely in order to appreciate the 
melody and majesty of Homer. Think of such a 
line as this, 

Ovped re (TKLoevra OaXacrcra ri iJ 
1 Iliad, I, 157. 



THE STUDY OF ANCIENT LITERATURE 337 

or of the infinite pathos of the words which tell the death 
of the youthful hero, 



apa fjnv eiTToira reXos Bavdroio 
* IK peQcav TrrajaeifTj "AtSotrSe 
A Ov Trorpov -yooolcra, XITTOVCT* avbpoTTJTa Kal 

Or remember that other famous passage which ends 
with words that have fired the hearts and nerved 
the arms of a hundred generations of patriots, 

'Ets oiaivbs a/Horos a^vvf.(j6a.i irepl irarpTj?. 2 

Is it not worth while to have in the background of 
one's mind the vision of a far-off romantic world to 
which we can turn back in thought and feel refreshed 
as it refreshes us to descry, beyond the busy streets of 
a city, the blue peak of a distant mountain range. 

You will not suppose me to be arguing that these 
studies, high as one may rate their value, are indispen- 
sable to one who would attain the best kind of culture 
or produce the best kind of literature. To genius 
nothing is indispensable. What others can absorb by 
training and study, the most gifted minds can achieve 
by their innate power : 

Pauci, quos aequus amavit 
lupiter, aut ardens evexit ad aethera virtus, 
Dis geniti, potuere. 3 

Some of our most brilliant writers, some of our 
strongest thinkers, have had little in the way of literary 

1 Hiad, XXII, 361. 2 Iliad, XH, 243. * jEneid, VI. 

z 



338 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

education. Yet even they might have gained from it 
something in fineness without losing anything in strength. 
Neither do I venture to suggest that you can expect 
any large number of young men to throw themselves 
into studies that seem so remote from the pursuits of 
practical life. Comparatively few will see any use in 
what they call dead languages, or will feel any taste for 
them. But some students you must have, and those 
not professors only. You must see to it that business 
is not the whole life of all American business men, 
but that room is made in the lives of some few 
of them for the enjoyments of ancient literature. 
The few are worth regarding, for it is always by 
the few best and most cultivated minds that tra- 
ditions are preserved and taste is maintained at a high 
level. They tend and keep alive the sacred flame. 

May it not be expected that the strain and stress of 
commercial and industrial life which now forces the 
American youth to sacrifice everything else to fitting 
himself for practical life, and leaves the American busi- 
ness man scarce any leisure for intellectual pleasures, 
will before long abate? A time will come when 
the development of the country's resources will have 
been completed and the opportunities for making huge 
fortunes will have become less frequent. If you can 
keep classical studies from further declining during the 
next fifty years, your battle will have been won. 



ON THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF 
HISTORY 

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS AS CHANCELLOR OF UNION COLLEGE, 
SCHENECTADY, JUNE, IQII. 



ON THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF 
HISTORY 

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS AS CHANCELLOR OF UNION COLLEGE, 
SCHENECTADY, JUNE, IQII. 

NOWHERE in the world is the study of history 
pursued with more zeal and assiduity than in the 
universities and colleges of the United States. There 
must be many hundreds of professors and instructors 
engaged in teaching it, and many others are occupied 
in various branches of research work. It seems to be 
that one among the so-called "humanistic" subjects 
which attracts the largest number of students, a num- 
ber probably much greater than that of those who are 
occupied with Greek and Latin. The methods of 
teaching it and writing it have, therefore, presented 
themselves to me as a fitting topic on which to ad- 
dress to you those remarks which you expect from one 
whom you have honoured by choosing him to be your 
Chancellor. 

Eighty years ago there was no teaching of the subject 
in American universities and practically none in 
British. In Cambridge and in Oxford a professor was 
allotted to it, but of these two one seldom lectured, 
and the other not at all. In Scotland the universities 

341 



342 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of St. Andrew's, Glasgow, and Aberdeen provided no 
historical teaching, while at Edinburgh there was a 
chair entitled that of Natural and Civil History, 
you may smile at the title, but there is a connection 
between the two departments. Here hi North 
America the old established college curriculum had no 
room for modern history and scarcely touched upon 
ancient. Now, both in British and in American univer- 
sities, the study has laid a strong hold upon the interest 
of those who in growing numbers resort thither. Next 
to that educational revolution which has given to the 
sciences of nature their now predominant position in 
the University curriculum, no change has been more 
noteworthy. I may therefore safely assume that 
many of you have followed with interest the course of 
recent discussions as to how history should be taught 
and written. 

Before I come to this topic, let me offer one remark. 
While admiring the untiring energy and patient care 
with which you teach American history and investi- 
gate all its details, and while desiring to express the 
gratitude of British scholars for what you have done 
and are doing for the history of England, I venture to 
submit that scarcely enough attention is given either 
here or in Britain to the history of the European 
Continent, and above all to ecclesiastical history, 
which is in a certain sense the central stream of all 
intellectual and social movement, from the early days 
of Christianity down to the eighteenth century, and 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 343 

which reveals to us the working of so many of the 
chief forces that have not only affected politics, but 
moulded character and conduct among Christian 
nations. Asking you to consider at your leisure this 
one suggestion, I pass on to a subject which has 
doubtless already presented itself to your minds, for it 
has been much discussed both here and in Europe. 
It is this : What do we mean by the scientific treat- 
ment of history ? And is history a science ? 

In its most elementary forms, history began in some 
countries, as in Egypt and among the Celtic peoples, 
with genealogies of chiefs and kings; in others, as 
among the Norsemen of Iceland, with tales of adven- 
ture describing the feats of famous men; and again in 
other countries, as in Europe during the Dark Ages, 
with entries in the rolls of monasteries of any events 
which appeared specially remarkable to the monk who 
acted as scribe. The picture records of Mexico, and 
the ballads in which the Pacific Islanders still recall 
the exploits of warriors of former days, would have 
been a basis for history had the art of writing been 
known, just as the Song of Deborah was an historical 
source for the early annals of Israel, and as the ballad 
of Chevy Chase would have been a similar source 
did we not possess more authentic records of the fight 
at Otterburn. But historical composition, as a dis- 
tinct branch of literature, begins with the Greeks, and 
begins with two famous writers, contemporaries of the 
great Athenian dramatists and of the greatest among 



344 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

Greek lyric poets. Herodotus and Thucydides were 
the models for the Roman historians from the second 
century B.C. onwards, and have been models for the 
civilized world ever since. 

Different as these two masters were, so different that 
they have been taken as representing two dissimilar 
types of historical writing, they were alike in possessing 
literary gifts of a high order. In their hands History 
is fascinating as well as instructive. That character, 
as a branch of what used to be called "polite letters," 
History recovered in the days of the Renaissance, and in 
that character it was cultivated with special diligence in 
the eighteenth century both on the European continent 
and in Britain. It was written not so much for the 
sake of presenting an accurate record of what had 
happened, as with a view to the pleasure or the moral 
edification of the reader. All possible pains were 
taken to make it attractive in style. It was embel- 
lished with rhetorical ornaments and, especially in the 
hands of the less skilful artists, copiously interspersed 
with moral reflections. For thirty years after the 
outbreak of the French Revolution it was treated by 
English writers in what might be called a homiletic 
spirit, being used to warn men against the excesses of 
democracy. Though we had in Britain no man who 
could rank, in respect of learning and services he ren- 
dered to learning, with the Italian Muratori, we had 
great writers who added to the charms of a stately and 
impressive style wide knowledge and vigorous thought. 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 345 

Such were Gibbon and Robertson, such, a generation 
later, was Henry Hallam. These men, while they 
never forgot that they were literary artists, felt 
themselves to be also bound to the utmost care 
in the collection and statement of their facts, and 
devoted one sees the growth of the tendency in 
Hallam as compared with his predecessors more 
and more care to the study of original authorities. 
Nevertheless the popular view that literary skill rather 
than special capacity or painstaking investigation was 
the quality which the historian needed was illustrated 
by the fact that so many of the most successful books 
were written by men who were litterateurs rather than 
historians. Hume, Smollet, and Goldsmith, a meta- 
physician, a novelist, and a dramatist, were the popu- 
lar historians of their day. When, in the next genera- 
tion, a history of Ireland was wanted for Lardner's 
Cabinet Cyclopaedia, it was committed to Tom Moore, 
the Irish poet, who brought patriotism and imagi- 
nation and style, but little else, to a singularly difficult 
task. So even in Germany, Schiller, withdrawn from 
the service of poetry, wrote the history of the Thirty 
Years' War. The tradition that the historian must be 
eloquent lasted on for another half century. George 
Bancroft and even Motley marred the effect of their 
books by needless rhetoric. The thoroughness and 
ingenuity with which E. A. Freeman worked out the 
details of his Norman Conquest and his History of Sicily 
would have been more fully appreciated but for his 



346 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tendency to grandiloquence. The case of J. A. Froude, 
the last of the so-called literary historians, is not quite 
the same. The others whom I have just named were 
solid, hard-working, conscientious scholars; Froude 
was a brilliant stylist, who had begun his career as a 
writer of stories, and chose thereafter to display in the 
field of history his gift of picturesque narration. His 
ecclesiastical partisanship was usually evident enough 
to enable a reader to discount it. A graver fault was 
that superb indifference to truth which sometimes led 
him to regard the facts he had to deal with chiefly as 
so much material to be handled with a view to artistic 
effect, putting on them such colouring as was needed 
to secure the particular effect desired, and caring little 
for accuracy in details which did not move his 
curiosity. 

A new spirit, however, had already been at work in 
France and Germany, and in the first quarter of the nine- 
teenth century it had begun to show itself in Great Brit- 
ain also. The same intellectual movement which had 
been producing discoveries in the field of physics and 
chemistry, and was soon to produce discoveries in those 
of geology and biology, revealed itself in the students of 
philology, economics, and history. The half century 
which covers Benjamin Franklin and Joseph Priestley 
and Saussure and Cuvier and Humboldt covers also 
the publication of F. A. Wolf's famous Prolegomena to 
Homer, a period in which new critical methods began 
to be applied by other scholars, as by Michaelis, to the 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 347 

primitive literature and early records of other peoples 
also. Even earlier they had been applied by Beaufort 
to Roman history. Niebuhr in Germany and Guizot 
in France were in the nineteenth century among the 
first leaders of a new school who showed that they cared 
more for the substance than for the form of their his- 
torical writing, though both of them had the force and 
finish which belong to powerful minds, Niebuhr bold 
and brilliant in his suggestions, Guizot, lucid, acute, 
and delicate in his handling of details. The men of 
this school flung themselves into the investigation 
of the sources of history with an ardour and assiduity 
which in earlier days had been sometimes displayed 
by patient and leisurely workers like the Benedictines 
in France or the Magdeburg Centuriators in Germany, 
but seldom by persons in the front rank either of 
teachers or of writers known to the world at large. 
Strict critical methods now began to be generally 
applied to the original contemporaneous authorities. 
Public and private archives and collections of books 
or documents were ransacked for new materials. 
Manuscripts were collated, edited, published in 
such a series as that of the Recueil des Historiens 
in France or that of the Monumenta Histories 
Germanica in Germany. All the old views were 
reexamined; many old fables or misconceptions were 
exploded. For the loose phrases and flowing periods 
of the school of "literary historians" there was sub- 
stituted an exact and precise setting forth of what 



348 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

could be ascertained from the sources, showing how 
much was certain, how much doubtful, and how far 
different sources agreed with or contradicted one 
another. In the earlier stages of the movement the 
more daring spirits attempted to reconstruct .the more 
distant and darker periods of history from data which we 
should now think too slender, and the tendency during 
the last thirty years has been to discourage efforts to 
rewrite the annals of a people in the light of any theory, 
however plausible, and to be content with setting out 
all that can be known, leaving the student to make the 
best of it. Ranke and Mommsen are, in respect of 
their immense productive power and massive learning, 
the most illustrious representatives of this school, but 
in our language, we may point to William Stubbs, to 
E. A. Freeman, to Francis Parkman, to Samuel R. 
Gardiner, and to F. W. Maitland as instances of the 
way in which scholars writing in English have 
absorbed and exemplified its methods. 

It is sometimes said that this change in the way of 
handling history is due to the influence of the sciences 
of nature upon the minds of all classes of educated 
men. Doubtless the rapid advance of those sciences 
through the application of their exact experimental 
methods has helped to strengthen among all kinds of 
investigators a sense of the importance of precision, 
accuracy, and caution in inference. Nevertheless it 
will be seen, if the progress of the humanistic studies is 
carefully examined, that the new tendencies which have 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 349 

come to pervade the latter are not a result of the ad- 
vance of the physical sciences, but rather part of a 
parallel and independent though cognate change in the 
intellectual tendencies and habits of mankind. The 
beginning of a critical examination of ancient docu- 
ments may be found in Spinoza, who was a con- 
temporary of the group of Englishmen that founded 
the Royal Society. The employment of exact methods 
in historical investigation was visible in modern 
Europe almost as soon as was the adoption of 
experimental methods in physical science. Nor was 
this critically exact spirit a wholly new thing. One 
sees it emerging from time to time in superior minds 
as far back as Thucydides and Aristotle. 

Not only in Germany, France, and Italy, but also in 
Britain and the United States the best men had been 
writing history in a genuinely scientific way before 
the term "scientific history" began to be used as a 
technical expression somewhere about the year 1880. 
If that term be taken to denote the systematic 
application of strict tests to evidence and a single- 
minded devotion to the ascertainment and the state- 
ment of truth, and nothing but the truth, then all 
will agree that it is an entirely laudable ideal, and that 
whoever gives us a history which is scientific in this 
sense, whatever else he gives or fails to give, renders a 
real service. 

The term seems, however, to be taken as connoting 
some negative as well as some positive qualities. The 



350 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

"scientific" historian must, it seems to be supposed, 
renounce all literary graces and aim at dryness. His 
style is to be plain and bald. Not only ornament, 
but anything which can rouse emotion or appeal to 
imagination is to be eschewed, for that way danger lies. 
Romantic incidents and dramatic scenes are to be 
excluded, or told in a business-like or even prosaic 
way, lest the reader be diverted from the succession of 
more important events; nor are any moral judgments 
to be pronounced. 

Our distinguished English authority, the late Pro- 
fessor Seeley, himself a writer of singular force, with 
a power of making his points tell which the most 
accomplished forensic advocate might have envied, went 
so far as to declare that in order to be scientifically 
valuable, history must be dull or dry. 

.Considered as a reaction against the habit of treat- 
ing history as a part of polite letters, against the 
superabundant rhetoric of Bancroft and the pic- 
turesque carelessness of Froude, this view was a legiti- 
mate reaction. It suited the practical and business-like 
spirit of our time, and has been generally accepted by 
the present generation. The truth of the facts is no 
doubt far more important than any of the embellish- 
ments which literary skill can add to a narrative, and 
if the embellishments begin to be seductive, cast them 
away. Excellent opportunities for working on these 
lines were afforded by such large cooperative under- 
takings as the Dictionary of National Biography 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 351 

and the Cambridge Modern History, for as in these 
compression was of the first importance, ornament was 
very properly discarded. I remember how at a public 
dinner given to celebrate the completion of the former 
book, one speaker, deservedly popular among the 
literary figures of London, delighted the audience by 
observing that the maxim of the editors of that 
stupendous work had been, "No flowers, by request." 

The precept that style need not be regarded has the 
advantage of being easy to follow, easier than most of 
the counsels of asceticism. If the road into the 
gardens of historic truth leads through the realm of 
dulness, all may traverse the first part of it. We can 
all of us be heavy, or slipshod, or merely level and 
monotonous. And doubtless it is better to be tedious 
and monotonous and dreary almost up to the verge 
of unreadability than that our facts should be wrong 
or that such of them as are right should be smothered 
under festoons of florid verbiage. A somewhat tedious 
history like Guicciardini's, or a level and rather arid one 
like Lingard's, is serviceable in spite of its tameness. 
But aridity raises no presumption of accuracy. There 
is no necessary or natural connection between the two 
things, and accuracy may be just as well combined 
with animation. The things that have actually hap- 
pened are as interesting as the things that might have 
happened, but did not, just as picturesque, just as well 
fitted to touch imagination and appeal to sentiment. 
That some writers have, in their desire to produce 



352 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

literary effect, forgotten that their first devotion was 
due to truth, is a reason not for despising literary 
effect, but for relegating it to the second place. 

There are instances enough more recent than those 
of Gibbon and Robertson, already noted, not to speak 
of Thomas Carlyle, to show that there is no incom- 
patibility between scientific and literary treatment. 
Macaulay's amazing force and brilliance have drawn, 
and continue to draw, thousands of people to his pages 
who would have been attracted by no one with a 
less fascinating style. But though his eminence and 
pronounced political views exposed him in his lifetime 
to a captiously minute and rather niggling criticism, 
his work has, take it all in all, stood the test of 
time as an authority. Lord Acton, one of the most 
accurate as well as the most learned of recent English 
historians, though sometimes obscure from the very- 
pregnancy of his thought, lit up his narrative with 
epigrammatic wisdom, and, more rarely, with descrip- 
tions of concentrated glow. The style of Henry C. 
Lea, the most learned as well as among the most 
accurate of recent American historical writers, though 
no doubt always plain and level, is always agreeable, 
because he knew how to select from the vast material 
at his command what was most illuminative. He has 
always something interesting to tell, and he tells it 
with lucid simplicity. Francis Parkman's laborious 
researches did not wither the freshness of his mind. 
John Richard Green, though sometimes heedless in 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 353 

small things, was in essential matters a sound and 
trustworthy writer, against whom few serious errors 
have ever been proved, yet his Short History 
of England is confessedly as fascinating as any 
novel. 

Thucydides himself, the greatest of them all, the 
model of exactness and thoroughness hi his treatment 
of the events of his time, Thucydides has given us 
narrative passages like that describing the retreat of 
the Athenian army from Syracuse, where every sentence 
is charged with dramatic force, and reflective passages 
which stir the depths of thought now as they did 
twenty-four centuries ago. There is no ornament in 
his writing, but there is not a dull page. 

May not our friends of the neo-scientific school those 
whom Walter Scott and after him Carlyle would have 
called the Dryasdusts sometimes forget that history 
has to be written not only for historical students who 
bring their interest with them, so that the dry bones 
are all they need, but also for those who bring no 
such special interest, and who will be repelled by an 
unattractive treatment of the theme ? That a knowl- 
edge of the past should be more generally diffused 
through the whole community, that the past should be 
made to live as something real in their minds, that it 
should help to form their tastes and enlarge their 
horizons, is an object worth working for. Anything 
can be made dull or lively by the way in which it is 
told, and history more easily than most subjects, 

2A 



354 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

because there are no difficulties of technical termi- 
nology to overcome. 

When we pronounce a book of history dull, why 
do we find it so? Is it not because the leading 
characters are not individualized, because the salient 
facts are not brought into due relief, because the dra- 
matic situations are missed, because the style does 
not rise or fall in sympathy with the significance of the 
events and their emotions they evoke ? The avoidance 
of these defects, so far from injuring the truth and 
precision of a record, will make it more vivid and more 
readily remembered by the special student as well 
as the lay reader. 

Another school has arisen of late years which also 
claims the name of Scientific, and its pretensions 
have made so much noise both in Europe and here 
as to require some consideration. This school seeks 
to raise, or reduce, history to the level of an exact 
science like those which deal with various departments 
of physical enquiry. Conceiving that only through at- 
taining an exactitude like theirs can history have any 
real value, it ignores the individual, it regards the course 
of human affairs as determined by general laws which 
govern the action of men associated in communities, 
much as the so-called "laws of nature" govern the in- 
animate and animate external world. From a study of 
racial characteristics, intellectual tendencies, and the 
play of economic interests, this school believes itself able 
to discover such laws, and it expounds them in elaborate 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 355 

formulae, purporting to sum up the past, to explain the 
present, to predict (perhaps less positively) the future. 
The objection to this method and procedure as we 
see it practised by the votaries of this school is that it 
is not scientific. Nothing accords less with scientific 
principles than to treat as similar things essentially 
dissimilar. Now the phenomena of human society 
which history deals with are altogether unlike the 
phenomena of external nature, indeed, so unlike as to 
suggest that the methods fit for the one can hardly be 
fit for the other, or at any rate cannot promise like 
results. Oxygen and hydrogen behave in the same 
way in all countries. Their properties were, so far as 
we know, the same ten thousand years ago as they are 
now, and are apparently the same here on our earth 
as they are in the sun and the other stars. But the 
features of human society are wholly different in 
different races and different countries. Even in the 
same countries they were a thousand years ago unlike 
what they are now. Their study is for this and other 
reasons incomparably more difficult than is the study 
of natural phenomena. No scrutiny we can apply to 
them can possibly be exhaustive, nor can those 
methods of counting, measuring and weighing by which 
exactitude is secured in chemistry and physics be 
employed. Most observers are prone, since they 
cannot possibly exhaust the facts, to fix their atten- 
tion on, and give prominence to, those facts which 
happen to fit in with their preconceived notions, and 



356 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

use them to support the broad generalizations they 
seek to draw. Many a man, when he has gone a 
little way into a subject, thinks it easy to sum up in a 
generalization the facts he sees. No habit is more 
seductive. But it is a dangerous habit, because ample 
knowledge and an experience that engenders caution 
are needed to recognize the pitfalls that lie round the 
enquirer's path. So one may say that the longer a 
man studies either a given country or a given period, the 
fewer, the more cautious, and the more carefully limited 
and guarded in statement will his generalizations be. 
Some fifty years ago the late Mr. H. T. Buckle 
published a book entitled a History of Civilization. 
Its vigorous style and bold generalizations gave it 
popularity at the tune. But though Buckle had read 
widely and done a good deal of thinking, his knowledge 
was altogether insufficient to qualify him for the task 
he was attempting, and he had not been trained to 
apply adequate criticism to the authorities he 
used. There were in the book some true things 
forcibly stated and fitted to stimulate reflection, but 
it made no really important contribution to knowl- 
edge ; and some of his generalizations, as for instance 
the well-known parallel between Scotland and Spain, 
were ludicrous. Of most of the other writers who 
have followed in the same path much the same may 
be said. The foundations have been weak, so the 
structures of ambitious theory raised upon them have 
been flimsy and unstable. These writers have seldom 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 357 

realized the extreme complexity of the data to be 
dealt with, the number of the hidden forces at work, 
the variability of human beings under different condi- 
tions, the important part played by individual men 
whose appearance has disturbed all calculations and 
overthrown all predictions. 

Suppose that a philosopher had hi the middle of the 
second century of our era addressed himself to the task 
of writing a history of civilization and moral progress. 
He would have had nearly nine centuries of tolerably 
authentic history behind him, a period as long as that 
which separates us from Pope Gregory the Seventh 
and William the Conqueror, and he might have pleased 
himself by drawing out and dedicating to the Em- 
peror Marcus Aurelius, as a monarch of philosophic 
tastes, a generalized statement of the laws governing 
human development which, being proved from an 
observation of the past, would evidently continue to 
determine human progress in the centuries to come. 
The materials might have seemed abundant, and the 
interpretation of the causes of progress a simple 
matter. But our philosopher would have left out of 
account the two factors which 'were destined to have 
most influence on that progress, Christianity, which 
the Emperor was trying to repress as a dangerous 
secret society, and the barbarian foes of civilization 
with whom he was warring on the Danube. 

The more recent writers of this school its Cory- 
phaeus was the late Mr. Herbert Spencer, but it has 



358 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

representatives in Continental Europe also have 
not (so far as I know) contributed to history either 
any sound theories, or any illuminative suggestions 
which competent historians did not know already, 
and did not know better, because they were known 
as the result of a wide and critical mastery of 
details. What the school has given is a mass of general 
propositions couched in what sounds like scientific 
language, but the contents and substance of which are 
either threadbare truths so dressed up in solemn 
phraseology as to appear to be novelties, or theories 
too vague and abstract to be serviceable either as 
interpretations or as summaries of the facts. Some- 
tunes the propositions are not true as stated, i.e. they 
contain a germ of truth, but are misleading unless 
many qualifications be added. This faith in phrases 
and formulae is an instance of that recurring pro- 
pensity of the human mind to impose upon facts in 
general its own notions drawn from a few facts 
hastily gathered, notions which gain authority from 
being clothed in elaborate pseudo-technical termi- 
nology. It was a like propensity which in the Middle 
Ages retarded the progress of the sciences of nature 
by embodying crude conceptions of phenomena in 
terms and theories to which there was nothing cor- 
responding in reality, as when men talked about 
"phlogiston" and "animal spirits" and thought they 
had explained things by saying that "nature abhors 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 359 

Mr. Spencer was a most painstaking and earnest 
thinker, and the efforts of his school to impress 
upon their contemporaries the value of an arrange- 
ment and synthesis of knowledge deserve all recogni- 
tion. Of what services the school has rendered to 
subjects other than history I will not venture to 
speak, but as respects the results attained in history 
and subjects cognate thereto, the view I have tried to 
convey to you is, I believe, that pretty generally held 
by historical students both here and in England. 
Perhaps the disappointment one feels in perusing 
books where one seeks for bread and seems to receive 
only stones may perhaps bias those of us who were 
trained in another school. Judge therefore for your- 
selves and see if you can extract new and profit- 
able truths where we have not been able to discover 
them. 

Needless to say that every historical scholar 
recognizes that there are certain general principles 
to be applied to the investigation of human society 
and to the elucidation of the forces by which the 
institutions and arts of life have advanced, and 
reognizes also that though the movement which 
has made history more scientific had an independent 
origin, the historian may profit by a knowledge of the 
methods employed in the sciences of nature. In the 
first place there is to be studied Human Nature itself, 
which presents certain fundamental qualities and habits 
present in all more or less civilized communities, quali- 



360 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

ties whose existence we may everywhere assume as social 
factors. These factors are in their outlines familiar 
to us all. They have been dwelt upon by philosophers 
and historians from Plato downwards. They do 
furnish a basis for what may be called a general treat- 
ment of political and social institutions, but it is only 
a basis, because the phenomena differ so much accord- 
ing to race and environment that the general propo- 
sitions we can lay down as positive and practically 
certain are but few. 

Secondly, there are certain general tendencies which 
can be traced through the annals of mankind, certain 
lines along which human progress has moved. To dis- 
cover and trace and illustrate these is the province of 
what is usually called the Philosophy of History, a 
subject with which some famous writers have dealt, 
beginning with the Arab Ibn Khaldun, and coming 
down through the Italian Vico to the German Hegel. 
There is no branch of historical enquiry that better 
deserves your thoughts. But it is more modest in its 
pretensions than is the school of Buckle and Spencer, 
for it does not attempt to lay down general proposi- 
tions about all men and all communities, but only to 
explain the past by showing what were the most 
potent forces and tendencies at work, and how the 
growth of the human mind expressed itself in the 
moulding and perfecting of institutions. 

The facts which History presents chronologically 
may also be treated as materials for a systematic 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 361 

study of any special branch of human activity, just as 
the events in the annals of the Greeks recorded by 
Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, and others may be 
used for a treatise, like that of Aristotle, concerning 
Greek politics. History may hand over the phenom- 
ena she records to be made the basis of books on 
political science, or economic science, or what is called 
Sociology, in which the phenomena are arranged and 
analyzed, and are so correlated and explained as to 
enable us to draw from them general conclusions. 
But the materials belong to History. It is she that 
has gathered them. It is to her that he who would 
handle them systematically must go in order to know 
the authenticity and the value of each part of them. 

Let me try to sum up as follows what I have sought 
to convey to you. 

There is no incompatibility between the scientific 
treatment and the literary treatment of history. Un- 
due attention to the latter will tend to make a writer 
less accurate and thorough in investigation, just as 
complete absorption in the investigation of facts will 
tend to make his presentation of the facts less attrac- 
tive. But there is nothing to-day, any more than in 
bygone days, to prevent him from being both a careful 
investigator and an agreeable writer. As between 
Lingard and Froude, choose Lingard, but the combina- 
tion of qualities which you have in Macaulay or 
Green or Parkman or Lea is better than either. No 
historians were more accurate and exact than Ranke 



362 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

and Mommsen, but every page in the writings of both 
has a literary quality. 

There is no incompatibility between the use of 
critical methods and a careful study of details on the 
one hand and a grasp of broad general principles on 
the other. Rather is it true that the man who knows 
the details best is also the fittest to educe and explain 
the general principles. Many a student can master the 
details who cannot expound the principles, but the 
man of wide grasp is always the better for knowing 
the details also, for in them lies Reality. 

That which is misleading and unfruitful is the ten- 
dency to disjoin the mastery of details from the so- 
called " sociological " study of general principles, i.e. to 
think you can have the latter without the former. 
To re-create any period of the Past for our own minds, 
to understand it as it was, unlike what went before it, 
unlike what came after it, this is the chief aim of 
history, and for this purpose one must study not only 
the masses of men but also individual men, their ideas 
and beliefs, their enjoyments and aspirations. Espe- 
cially important is it for any one who would explain 
the course of events that he should understand those 
individuals who by force of thought or will dominated 
their own time and turned the course of events. Not 
only has the study of striking figures the greatest 
fascination for the ordinary reader as well as the 
student, it has also an importance for the compre- 
hension of events which the Buckle and Spencer 



THE WRITING AND TEACHING OF HISTORY 363 

school do not seem to realize. The individual doubt- 
less counts for less to-day in most countries than he 
did in either the republics or the monarchies of the 
past. But if you wish to realize how much he still 
counts for, think of how different Europe would have 
been to-day had there been no Napoleon Bonaparte, 
no Mazzini, no Cavour, no Bismarck ; or what it 
would have meant in your Revolutionary War if 
Clive, who died in 1774, had lived to lead the troops of 
George the Third and there had been no Washington 
to oppose him, or how different the course of events 
in the Civil War if Seward instead of Lincoln had been 
nominated at Chicago for the Presidency. 

The writer or teacher of history begins by a 
critical investigation of the facts. This is science, and 
one of the most difficult branches of science. When 
you have ascertained the facts so far as ascertainable, 
try to connect them and arrange them in the order 
of their importance and educe general conclusions 
from them. This also is science. Then set them forth 
in the best order and the best words you can find. 
This is literature. Literary skill crowns the work, and 
makes it more useful because it makes the work 
spread farther, and better accomplish its end. But it 
is worthless if the two other processes have not gone 
before. 

For the highest kind of historical work four gifts 
are needed; unwearied diligence in investigation, a 
penetrating judgment which can fasten on the more 



364 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

essential points, an imagination which can vivify the 
past, and that power over language which we call 
Style. So the greatest historians have been those who 
combined a wide sweep of vision with a thorough 
mastery of details, and who have known how to set 
forth both the details and the principles in a way 
which makes them enrich the reader's thought, touch 
his emotions, and live in his memory. 



SOME HINTS ON READING 

ADDRESS TO THE STUDENTS OF RUTGERS (FORMERLY QUEEN'S) 
COLLEGE, NEW JERSEY, OCTOBER, 1911. 



SOME HINTS ON READING 

i 
ADDRESS TO THE STUDENTS OF RUTGERS (FORMERLY QUEEN'S) 

COLLEGE, NEW JERSEY, OCTOBER, 1911. 

IT has been often said that books do for us to-day 
what universities did in earlier ages. The knowledge 
that could five centuries ago have been obtained only 
from the lips of a teacher, can now be gathered from the 
printed page. Nevertheless, since it is only the most 
active and most diligent and most discerning minds 
that can dispense with the help and guidance of teachers 
to show them what to read and how to read, univer- 
sities and colleges are scarcely less useful if not quite 
so indispensable to-day as they were before the inven- 
tion of printing. It is, therefore, not unfitting that in 
your college I should be asked to talk to you about 
books, the way to choose them, and the way to draw 
most profit from them. The very abundance of books 
in our days a stupefying and terrifying abundance 
has made it more important to know how to choose 
promptly and judiciously among them if one is not to 
spend as much time in the mere choice as in the use. 
Here you have the help of your professors. But here 
you are only beginning the process of education which 
will go on during the rest of your life. By far the 

367 



368 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

largest part of that process will, after you have left 
college, consist in your independent reading, so the 
sooner you form habits of choice and methods of use, 
the better. 

The first piece of advice I will venture to give you 
is this : Read only , the best books. There are 
plenty of them, far more than you will ever find time 
to read, and when they are to be had it is a pity to 
waste time on any others. 

You may ask what I mean by the Best books. 
Passing by for the moment those which in each of 
the great world-languages we call its classics, for to 
these we shall return presently, I mean by the Best 
those from which you receive most, and can carry 
most away, in the form either of knowledge or of 
stimulation. When you want to learn something 
about a subject, do not fall upon the first book 
which you have heard named or which professes 
by its title to deal with that subject. Consult your 
teacher, or any well-read friend, or the librarian of 
the nearest public library. (One of the greatest services 
public libraries render is that they provide librarians 
usually competent, and I believe always willing, to 
advise those who apply to them.) Be content with 
nothing less than the very best you can get. Time 
will be saved in the end. 

There is no waste more pitiable than that so often 
seen when some zealous student has, for want of 
guidance, spent weeks or months of toil in trying to 



SOME HINTS ON READING 369 

obtain from a second- or third-rate book what he 
might have found sooner and better in a first-rate one. 
So try to read only what is good. And by "good" 
you will not suppose me to mean what used to be 
called "improving books," books written hi a sort of 
Sunday School spirit for the moral benefit of the 
reader. A book may be excellent hi its ethical tone, 
and full of solid information, and yet be unprofitable, 
that is to say, dull, heavy, uninspiring, wearisome. 
Contrariwise, a book is good when it is bright and 
fresh, when it rouses and enlivens the mind, when 
it provides materials on which the mind can pleasur- 
ably work, when it leaves the reader not only knowing 
more but better able to use the knowledge he has 
received from it. 

Seventy years ago people, or at least those who used 
then to be called the preceptors of youth, talked as if there 
lay a certain virtue in dry books, or at any rate a moral 
merit in the process of plodding through them. It 
was a dismal mistake, which inflicted upon youth many 
a dreary hour. The dull book is not better than the 
lively book. Other things being equal, it is worse, be- 
cause it requires more expenditure of effort to master 
such of its contents as are worth remembering. If the 
edge of the tool is blunt, one must put forth more 
strength, and as there is never too much strength, none 
of it should be wasted. It may be asked, "But is not 
the mental discipline wholesome ? " Yes, effort crowned 
with victory is a fine thing, but since there is plenty of 



370 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

such discipline to be had from the better books why go 
to the worse books for it ? 

Sometimes it happens that what you want to learn can- 
not be had except from dry or even from dull treatises. 
Dryness and duhiess are not the same thing, for the 
former quality may be due to the nature of the subject, 
but the latter is the fault of the author. Well, if there 
is no other book to be found, you must make the best 
of the dry and even of the dull. But first make quite 
sure that there are none better to be had, for though in 
many a subject the really satisfactory book has not yet 
been written, still in most subjects there is a large choice 
between the better and the worse. 

Every book ought to be so composed as to be capable 
of being read with enjoyment by those who bring 
interest and capacity to it. One cannot be playfully 
various and graphically picturesque upon every kind 
of subject. Once, in a distant British colony, a friend 
of mine was asked by a person who knew that he came 
from the University of Oxford, " What do you think of 
Euclid?" My friend replied that Euclid's "Elements 
of Geometry" if that was what the question referred 
to was a valuable treatise, whose reputation had 
been established for many centuries. "Yes," said the 
questioner, "but what do you think of Euclid's style?" 
My friend answered that he had always thought more 
about the substance than about the style of Euclid, 
but would be glad to know his questioner's opinion. 
"Well," said the latter, "I consider it quite a good 



SOME HINTS ON READING 371 

style, but too systematic." Eloquence, variety, and wit 
are not the particular merits we look for in a scientific 
treatise, but however dry geometry or any other 
subject may appear, there is all the difference between 
a book which is well arranged and well expressed, a 
book which takes a grip of the mind and affords the 
pleasure of following out a line of logical thought, 
and a book which tumbles out facts and ideas in a 
confused and shapeless heap. 

To you undergraduates life now seems a long vista 
with infinite possibilities. But, if you love learning, 
you will soon find that life is altogether too short for 
reading half the good books from which you would 
like to cull knowledge. Let not an hour of it be 
wasted on third-rate or second-rate stuff if first-rate 
stuff can be had. Goethe once said of some one he 
knew, " He is a dull man. If he were a book, I 
would not read him." When you find that a book is 
poor, and does not give you even the bare facts you 
are in search of, waste no more time upon it. 

The immensity of the field of reading suggests 
another question. Ought a man to read widely, trying 
to keep abreast of the progress of knowledge and 
thought in the world at large, or is it better that he 
should confine himself to a very few subjects, and to 
proceed not discursively but upon some regular 
system ? 

Each alternative has its advantages, but considering 
how rapidly knowledge is extending itself in all direc- 



372 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

tions, and how every branch of it is becoming special- 
ized, we must recognize that the range of attainment 
possible three or even two centuries ago is now un- 
attainable even by the most powerful and most 
industrious minds. To-day the choice lies between su- 
perficiality in a larger, and some approach to thorough- 
ness in a smaller, number of topics. Between these 
alternatives there can be no doubt as to your choice. 
Every man ought to be thorough in at least one thing, 
ought to know what exactness and accuracy mean, 
ought to be capable by his mastery of some one topic 
of having an opinion that is genuinely his own. So 
my advice to you would be to direct your reading 
chiefly to a few subjects, in one at least of which 
you may hope to make yourself proficient, and as re- 
gards other subjects, to be content with doing what 
you can to follow the general march of knowledge. 
You will find it hard indeed impossible to 
follow that march in the physical sciences, unless you 
start with some special knowledge of one or more of 
them. Many of the branches into which they have 
been diverging are now so specialized that the ordinary- 
reader can hardly comprehend the technical terms which 
modern treatises employ. But as respects travel and 
history and biography, and similarly as respects econom- 
ics, the so-called "sociological subjects," art, and lit- 
erary criticism, it is possible for a man who husbands his 
time and spends little of it on newspapers or magazines, 
to find leisure for the really striking books that are 



SOME HINTS ON READING 373 

published on some of these topics which lie outside 
his special tastes. Do not, however, attempt to cover 
even the striking books on all of such topics. You 
will only dissipate your forces. Now and then a book 
appears which everybody ought to read, no matter 
how far it lies out of his range of study. It may be 
a brilliant poem. It may be a treatise throwing new 
light on some current question of home or foreign 
politics, about which every citizen, because he is a 
citizen, ought to try to have an opinion. It may be 
the record of some startling discovery in the realms of 
archaeology, for instance, or in some branch of natural 
science. But such books are rare ; and in particular 
the epoch-making scientific discoveries are seldom 
known at the time when the world first hears of them 
to be really epoch-making. 

Two questions may, however, have presented them- 
selves to you. One is this : Are there not some indis- 
pensable books which everyone is bound to read on 
pain of being deemed to be not an educated man? 
Certainly there are. Every language has its classics 
which those who speak the language ought to have 
read as part of a liberal education. In our own tongue 
we have, say, a score of great authors it would be 
easy to add another dozen, but I wish to be moderate 
and put the number as low as possible of whose works 
every one of us is bound to have read enough to enable 
him to appreciate the author's peculiar quality. 
These of course you must read, though not necessarily 



374 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

all or nearly all they have written. Spenser, for 
instance, is an English classic, but even so voracious 
a reader as Macaulay admitted that few could be 
expected to persevere to the end of the "Faery 
Queene." Even smaller is the percentage of Dryden's 
works which a man may feel bound to read. Do not 
look for an opinion as to the percentage in the case of 
Robert Browning. The sooner you begin to read 
those who belong to this score, the better, for most of 
them are poets, and youth is the season in which to 
learn to love poetry. If you do not care for it then, 
you will hardly do so later. 

The other question is, What about fiction? I can 
just recall an austere time, more than sixty years ago, 
when in Britain not a few moralists and educators 
were disposed to ban novel-reading altogether to 
young people and to treat it even among their elders 
as an indulgence almost as dangerous as the use of 
cards, dice, and tobacco. Exceptions, however, were 
made even by the sternest of these authorities. 
I recollect that one of them gave his imprimatur to 
two stories by an estimable Scottish authoress now 
long forgotten named Miss Brunton. These tales 
were entitled " Discipline " and " Self-Control," and a 
perusal of them was well fitted to discourage the 
young reader from indulging any further his taste for 
imaginative literature. Permitted fiction being scanty, 
I did attack " Self-Control," and just got through it, 
but " Discipline " was too much for me. Fiction is 



SOME HINTS ON READING 375 

far more read now; being abundant and cheaper, 
since it comes in the form of magazines as well as 
in books. But we have no Dickens, no Thackeray, no 
Hawthorne, no George Eliot. 

, Need anything more be said about fiction than that 
we should deal with it just as we should with other 
kinds of literature ? Read the best ; that is to say, 
read that from which you can carry away something 
that enlarges the range of your knowledge and sets 
your mind working. A good story, be it a historical 
romance or a picture of contemporary social condi- 
tions, gives something that is worth remembering. It 
may be a striking type of character, or a view of life 
and the influences that mould life, presented in a 
dramatic form. Or perhaps the tale portrays the 
aspects of society and manners in some other country, 
or is made a vehicle for an analysis of the heart and 
for reflections that illuminate some of the dark corners 
of human nature. Whichever of them it be that a 
powerful piece of fiction gives, the result is something 
more than mere transient amusement. Knowledge is 
increased. Thought is set in motion. New images 
rise before us. It is an enrichment of the mind to 
have erected within it a gallery of characters, the 
creation of imaginative minds, characters who be- 
come as real to us as th'e famous characters of history, 
to some of us possibly more real. In them we see the 
universal traits of human nature and learn to know our- 
selves and those around us better, we comprehend the 



376 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

common temptations and aspirations, the mixture of 
motives, the way in which Fortune plays with men. 
We share the possession of this gallery with other 
educated men. It is a part of the common stock of 
the world's wealth. 

The danger of becoming so fond of fiction as to care 
for no other sort of reading, a malady from which some 
men and more women are said to suffer, will threaten 
nobody who has formed the habit of reading the kind 
of fiction I am trying to describe, because he will enjoy 
no other kind. A boy or girl can usually read any 
sort of tale be it better or worse written. The story 
is enough for him. As he grows older and has read 
more and more of the best writers, his taste becomes 
more cultivated and exacting. While faults repel him 
more, merits attract him more, because he has become 
more capable of appreciation. At last a poor quality 
of fiction which is merely commonplace, handling 
threadbare themes in a hackneyed way, the sort of 
fiction into which no inventive or reflective thought 
has gone, comes to bore him. He can no longer read 
it, because it is too dull or too vapid. 

Prose fiction, in its higher forms, cultivates the 
imagination almost as well as history does, but poetry 
does this better than either. The pleasures of the 
imagination are among the highest we can enjoy. 
Unless, therefore, any one of you is so unlucky as to 
find no delight in poetry, it will always form a part of 
your reading. Not much of the highest order has 



SOME HINTS ON READING 377 

been appearing in these later days in any country, 
but there is such an abundance from former days 
that" you will never want for plenty to read and no 
modern language possesses so much poetry of first- 
rate merit as does our own. 

It seems a pity that the old practice of learning a 
good deal of poetry by heart should be now falling into 
disuse, for it stored the mind hi the early years of life 
with fine thoughts in fine words and helped to form a 
taste for style, seeing that style can rise to greater 
heights of perfection in poetry than hi any kind of 
prose. As to what to read in poetry, there is no need 
hi our day to warn any one against reading too much, 
and there is little to say about choice, for you will 
naturally be drawn first to the great and famous 
classics in our own and other tongues, and they will so 
form your taste that you will know how to choose 
among other verse writers. In particular do not omit 
those few great writers who have attained to a distinc- 
tive way of looking at the world as a whole (what the 
Germans call a Weltanschaung), those in whose minds 
and works human nature in all its varieties, human 
life in all its aspects, is mirrored. The author, or authors, 
of the Homeric poems is the earliest example: Goethe 
is one of the latest, and not all are poets, for Cervantes 
is among them. 

A man who does not care for those whom the judg- 
ment of the world has approved, may conclude that 
the fault is with himself. But it is not always the 



378 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

greatest writers that give the most pleasure. Most of 
us have some two or three poets not classed in the 
first rank, perhaps writers whose fame has always been 
limited, to whom we frequently return because they 
express thoughts in a way which makes a special appeal 
to our own minds. Look out for these also, and 
cherish them when you have found them. 

Though divers wise and learned men have drawn 
up lists of what they describe as the Best Hundred 
Books, it may be doubted whether such lists have 
any use beyond that of indicating the preferences 
of their eminent compilers and the use also of re- 
calling to the notice of the modern public some 
remarkable works which it had nearly forgotten. The 
truth is that the excellence of a book is not absolute, 
i.e. the same for all readers alike, but rather is 
relative to the knowledge and capacities and environ- 
ment of the particular reader. Many a book of first- 
rate value to a person prepared by education and spe- 
cial talents to appreciate it is useless to others not 
so prepared. A more really interesting enquiry is, 
What are the books that have made most difference to 
the progress of the world? Such books are a part, and a 
significant part, of world-history, yet some of them 
would interest comparatively few readers to-day. 

The question of how much time should be devoted 
to the classics of other countries than our own is too 
large a one for me to enter on. Enough to say that 
whoever knows Latin or Greek or Italian or French or 



SOME HINTS ON READING 379 

German or Spanish or Icelandic, will not need to be 
told that he ought to be just as anxious to know the 
masterpieces in those languages as those in his own. 
The ancient classics in particular give something which 
no modern literature supplies. 

From considering What to read, let us go on to con- 
sider How to read. Here my advice to you would be, 
Read with a purpose. Bend your mind upon the book. 
Read it so as to get out of it the best it has to give you. 
You may accept this advice as applicable to what is 
read for information, but may think it superfluous if 
the book is a story or other work read for amusement, 
because presumably no one will persevere with such a 
book unless it interests him. Yet even where the aim 
is amusement and the book a work of fiction one man 
may, if he read it in the right way, extract more 
benefit as well as more pleasure than another would 
do. If the story is worth reading, it is so because it 
not only appeals to our curiosity, but also because it 
pleasurably stirs our thought. 

With other kinds of literature, with science or 
philosophy or history or economics, the worth of 
the book is to be measured by what you can 
carry away from it, and that depends mainly on 
the spirit in which you read. The book, as already 
observed, must have quality enough to stimulate 
thought, to give you what is called a mental reaction. 
But however good the quality, the reaction will not 
follow unless you address your mind to the subject. 



380 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

The purpose must be either to get something whether 
facts or ideas which you can add to your store of 
knowledge or else to receive a stimulus which will 
quicken your own powers of thinking and feeling. 
These two benefits usually go together. It is not the 
quantity of reading that counts, but the quantity and 
the intensity of thought that are evoked. Nothing is 
gained by skimming over hundreds or thousands of 
pages of print unless something remains from the 
process. So if after having honestly applied your 
intellect to a book you do not find anything you care 
to carry away, drop it. Either it is not worth further 
effort, or it maybe outside the range of your appreciation. 

You will not, however, fancy that all the books you 
may have to consult deserve careful study. If 
thoroughness is a virtue to be cultivated, still more is 
time a thing to be saved. The old maxim, " Whatever 
is worth doing is worth doing well," is less true than it 
seems, and has led many people into a lamentable 
waste of time. Many things are worth doing if you 
can do them passably well with a little time and 
effort, which are not worth doing thoroughly if so to 
do them requires much time and effort. 

Time is the measure of everything in life, and 
every kind of work ought to be adjusted to it. One of 
the commonest mistakes we all make is spending our- 
selves on things whose value is below the value of the 
time they require. Many a book may be worth read- 
ing rapidly so as to extract from it the few important 



SOME HINTS ON READING 381 

facts it contains, and yet be by no means worth a 
prolonged study. Economize time in reading as in 
everything else. The adage that Time is Money falls 
far short of the truth. Time is worth more than 
money because by its judicious employment more 
enjoyment can be secured than money can purchase. 

One of the less fortunate results of the large amount 
of matter which the printing-press turns out in our time 
is the tendency it has bred to read everything hastily 
and unthinkingly. The man who glances through 
several newspapers in the morning and two or three 
magazines in the evening forms the habit of inattention, 
or, more correctly, half attention. He reads with no in- 
tention of remembering anything except what directly 
and urgently bears upon his own business, and when 
hi the scanty leisure which business and the practice 
of reading newspapers and magazines leave him, he 
takes up a book, this habit of half attention prevents 
him from applying his mind to what he reads. 
Instead of stimulating thought, constant reading of 
this kind deadens it, and the quantity of reading and 
the quantity of thinking are apt to be in inverse ratio 
to one another. To say, "Don't read without think- 
ing," might be deemed to be that useless thing, a 
Counsel of Perfection ; but I may say, "Beware of the 
Reading Habit." It is one of the curses of our age. 
What is wanted to-day is less printing and less reading, 
but more thinking. Reading is easy, and thinking is 
hard work, but the one is useless without the other. 



382 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

You may ask what is the best way of trying so to 
read books as to be able to retain the best they give 
us. If the book be one you wish to know with abso- 
lute thoroughness, as students at Oxford University 
were in my time expected to know Aristotle's Ethics 
and the history of Thucydides for our degree examina- 
tion, you will find it a good plan to read over every day 
all that you read the day before. At first this is irksome, 
but it fixes things in your mind and is a saving in the 
long run. Everybody has his own devices for record- 
ing what he deems best in what he reads, but I can rec- 
ommend that of making very short notes, or references, 
on the fly leaf (or leaves) at the end and beginning of a 
volume of the most important facts or views it contains, 
noting the page on which each occurs, so that one can 
refer promptly to the things which struck one at the 
time. Where a work is either of exceptional merit for 
its fertility in suggestion, or is specially rich in out-of- 
the-way facts, it may be worth while to bind in 
additional fly leaves. Should the book be not one's 
own but borrowed from a friend or a library, one 
must of course make the notes or references in a Ms. 
note-book, and in that case, since the treatise will not 
be at hand to refer to, it becomes necessary to make 
a somewhat fuller abstract of the facts it is desired to 
remember. The advantage of either method is that 
the process of compressing the fact or view into the 
fewest possible words helps to fix it in the memory. I 
remember cases in which eight or ten entries represented 



SOME HINTS ON READING 383 

the total results of reading a book of four hundred 
octavo pages, yet those entries might serve to make 
some dark things clear. 

The late Lord Acton, the most learned man I ever 
knew, was in the habit of copying out on slips 
of paper passages or sentences which he thought 
valuable from all the volumes he perused. He had 
hundreds of cardboard boxes filled with these slips, the 
boxes being labelled with the titles of their subjects; 
and he seemed to know how to lay his hand upon any 
extract he wanted. Few, however, could hope to bring 
leisure and industry like his to the accumulation of 
such a mass of knowledge ; and he spent so much time 
in the process of gathering the opinions of others that 
he had little left for using them or for giving the world 
the fruit of his own thoughts, often far better worth 
having than that which he had plucked from other 
orchards. 

There are those who keep note-books in which they 
enter the most remarkable facts or aphorisms or 
statements of doctrine and opinion which they en- 
counter in the course of their reading. For persons 
fortunate enough to have formed methodical habits 
this may be a good plan. 

Ought reading to be systematic ? Should a man lay 
down a scheme and confine himself to one or more sub- 
jects in which he can become proficient rather than 
spread himself out in superficial sciolism over a large 
number ? 



384 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

For many of us Life answers this question by requir- 
ing attention to be devoted primarily to books which 
bear upon our occupation or are connected with it. 
For others again pronounced tastes point out certain 
lines of reading as those in which they will find most 
pleasure. Yet there is also a third class whom neither 
their avocations nor any marked personal prefer- 
ences guide in any particular direction. My advice to 
these would be : If you have not got a definite taste, try 
to acquire one. Find some pursuit or line of study which 
you can relish, and give to it most of your spare time. 
It will be a constant spring of pleasure, an occupation 
in solitude, a distraction from worries, even a consola- 
tion in misfortune, to have something unconnected 
with one's daily work to which one can turn for change 
and refreshment of spirit. Some branch of natural 
history, or some one of the physical sciences, is perhaps 
the best for this purpose, but any branch of history 
or archaeology or art (including, as one of the very 
best, music) will serve. When one has such a pursuit 
or taste, it naturally becomes the central line which a 
man's reading follows. In advising a concentration of 
study upon some few topics, I do not suggest that you 
should cease to interest yourselves in the general 
movements of the world. Everyone ought to try to 
keep abreast of his time, so far at least as not to be 
ignorant of the great advances that are being made. 
Of most of these you will not be able to know 
much, but the more you can know, the better, so long 



SOME HINTS ON READING 385 

as you do not scatter and dissipate your efforts in such 
wise as to become a mere smatterer. 

There is a maxim which, like that other venerable 
dictum already referred to, sounds good but has often 
done harm. (A book might be written with the title 
Moral Maxims and the Mischief they Do.} You all 
remember the lines: 

A little learning is a dangerous thing ; 
Drink deep or taste not the Pierian spring. 

With all respect to the poet, this is by no means 
true. A little learning is not dangerous so long as you 
know that it is little. Danger begins with thinking you 
know much more than you do. It is not knowledge, 
be it great or small, but the conceit of knowledge, that 
misleads men : and the best remedy against this is not 
ignorance, but the knowing some one thing really well. 
Thoroughness in one subject enables a man to recog- 
nize his scantiness of attainment in other subjects, not 
to add that to have learnt any one thing well helps 
him in dealing with whatever else he touches, since 
he learns to discern more quickly what is essential, 
and to make sure that his knowledge, even if it 
remains elementary, is not merely superficial. 

Do not be surprised if after advising you to read 
thoroughly I also advise you to learn to read swiftly. 
There is no inconsistency, for thoroughness depends 
not so much on the time spent on a piece of work as 
upon the intensity wherewith the mind is concentrated 

2C 



386 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

upon it. One man will read a book in half as many 
hours as another, and yet know more of what is in 
the book ; and this because of his superior power of 
turning upon it the full stream of his mental energy. 
Only exceptional minds possess this gift in high 
measure, as did Macaulay, who read a book so swiftly 
that he seemed to turn the pages almost without 
pausing, taking in at one glance all that was in them, 
and yet carrying away all that was worth remem- 
bering. But you can cultivate the gift by practice, 
and it deserves cultivating, for it means better results 
with less time spent. 

The counsel of swift reading is, of course, appli- 
cable only to books which are read chiefly for their 
facts or their views, not to those whose merit lies 
largely in their style. It would be folly to gallop 
through Virgil or Keats or Charles Lamb or Heinrich 
Heine or Chateaubriand. Not in poetry only must 
one move deliberately, but also in reading fine 'and 
finished prose, where every word has its fitting place 
in the sentence, and its due effect in calling up subtle 
associations and in touching, however delicately, the 
spring of emotion. 

Finally, let me suggest that you read with inde- 
pendence. There are various spirits in which a 
book may be approached. One must not be captious, 
hunting out mistakes or blemishes. But neither must 
one submissively assume that the author is always 
right. No author, however great, is exempt from 



SOME HINTS ON READING 387 

error. True it is that modesty is always in order, 
and deference due to writers of established credit. 
We must take them as likely to be wiser than we are. 
Nevertheless, if you wish to profit by your reading, 
do not forget to scrutinize each argument as it is pre- 
sented, each inference drawn, each maxim delivered, 
to see if it be justified by the facts. Sound criticism 
seeks rather to discover and appreciate merits than to 
note faults ; but however ready we may be to admire, 
we must test our author as we go along, and make 
sure that the view we accept from him is formed not 
because he has given it but because he has con- 
vinced us that it is correct. As your forefathers said 
that perpetual vigilance is the price of freedom, so 
you may say that it is also the price of learning. In 
a free country every citizen is responsible for the 
formation of his opinions, and must take them neither 
from newspapers nor from platform speeches. So in 
the domain of knowledge a man will lose half the 
benefit of his study if he reads in a passively receptive 
way, neglecting to apply his own judgment. Often 
he will not be able to test his author. Often when he 
differs from his author the author will be right, and he 
wrong in venturing to differ. Nevertheless, such error 
is better than an indolent acquiescence which brings 
to bear no independent thought. 

To say this is to repeat in different words the remark 
that the reading which counts is the reading which, 
in making a man think, stirs and exercises and polishes 



388 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the edge of his mind. The end of study is not to pos- 
sess knowledge as a man possesses the coins in his 
purse, but to make knowledge a part of ourselves, that 
is, to turn knowledge into thought, as the food we eat 
is turned into the life-giving and nerve-nourishing 
blood. It is to have a mind so stored and equipped 
that it shall be to each man, as to the imprisoned sage, 
his kingdom, of which no one can deprive him. When 
you have begun by forming the habit of thinking as 
you read, and exercising your own judgment freely, 
though modestly, you will find your footing grow 
firmer and surer as you advance, and will before long 
know for yourselves what to read and how to read. 
Life has few greater pleasures. 



NATIONAL PARKS THE NEED OF THE 
FUTURE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED BEFORE THE EIGHTH ANNUAL CONVENTION 
OF THE AMERICAN Crvic ASSOCIATION, BALTIMORE, MARYLAND, 
NOVEMBER 20, 1912, THE HON. WALTER L. FISHER, SECRE- 
TARY OF THE INTERIOR, PRESIDING. 



NATIONAL PARKS THE NEED OF THE 
FUTURE 

ADDRESS DELIVERED BEFORE THE EIGHTH ANNUAL CONVENTION 
OF THE AMERICAN Crvic ASSOCIATION, BALTDJIORE, MARYLAND, 
NOVEMBER 20, 1912, THE HON. WALTER L. FISHER, SECRE- 
TARY OF THE INTERIOR, PRESIDING. 

HAVING come here for the first time forty-two years 
ago, I have known the United States long enough to 
feel just as much interested in all those questions that 
relate to your welfare, in city and in country, as if I 
were one of your own citizens, and I hope you will allow 
me to speak to you with that freedom which you would 
allow to one of your citizens. In discussing a subject 
so far removed from politics or any other controversial 
field as is that which occupies you this evening, I need 
not feel those limitations which an official position 
would otherwise impose. 

There is one thing better even than that City 
Beautiful to which previous speakers have referred, 
and that is the Country Beautiful. Before there 
were cities there was a Country. It holds for us 
greater and more varied beauties than a city can, and 
it contains more that appeals to our imagination, and 
is associated with the sweet recollections of childhood. 

391 



392 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

Let me say something about the need for preserving 
rural beauty. 

I have had in England some experience in dealing 
with the questions you are discussing, having been 
for some years chairman of a society for preserving 
commons and open spaces and public rights of way, 
and having also served on the committee of another 
society for securing to the public places of national 
and historic interest. Thus I was led often to think 
of what is our duty to the future, and of the benefits 
which the preservation of places of natural beauty 
may confer on the community. That is a problem 
which presents itself, not only in Great Britain, but 
all over Europe, and now you in America are tend- 
ing to become what Europe already is. Europe is 
now a populous, almost overcrowded, continent. You 
will some day be a populous and ultimately, perhaps, 
except in those regions which the want of rain con- 
demns to sterility, a crowded continent, and it is 
well to take thought at once, before the days of over- 
crowding confront you, how you will deal with the 
difficulties which have met us in Europe, so that you 
may learn as much as possible from our experience, 
and not find too late that the beauty and primitive 
simplicity of nature have been snatched from you by 
private individuals. 

I need not descant upon that which the love of nature 
is, or at least ought to be, to each and all of us. Of 
all those pleasures, the power to enjoy which has been 



NATIONAL PARKS 393 

implanted in us, the love of nature is the very 
simplest and best. It is the most easily accessible, it 
is one which can never be perverted, it is one of which 
(as the old darky said about the watermelon) you can- 
not have too much. It lasts from youth to age. We 
cannot enjoy it in the form of strenuous physical 
exercise with the same fulness in old age, because our 
powers of walking, swimming, and climbing are not the 
same, but we have an ampler and richer enjoyment in 
some other ways, because, we have the memories and 
associations of the past and especially of those in whose 
company we have in bygone days visited beautiful 
scenes. And there are also the literary associations 
with which poetry clothes many a wild or lovely spot. 
The farther a people recedes from barbarism, the more 
refined are its tastes, the more gentle its manners, the 
less sordid its aims, so much the greater is its suscepti- 
bility to every form of beauty, so much the more do 
the charms of nature appeal to it. Delight in them 
is a test of civilization. 

As the love of nature is happily increasing among us, 
it becomes all the more important to find means for 
safeguarding nature. Population is also increasing, 
and thus the number of people who desire to enjoy 
nature is growing larger both absolutely and in 
proportion to the whole. But, unfortunately, the 
opportunities for enjoyment, except as regards easier 
locomotion, are not increasing. The world is circum- 
scribed, and we feel the narrowness of it more and 



394 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

more as all its corners are explored and surveyed. The 
surface of this little earth of ours is indeed sadly 
limited, and we cannot add to it. When a man finds 
his house too small, he builds more rooms on to it, but 
we cannot add to our earth; we did not make it, it 
was made for us, and we cannot by taking thought in- 
crease its dimensions. All that can be done is turn it 
to the best possible account. 

Now, let us remember that the quantity of natural 
beauty in the world, that is to say, the regions and 
spots calculated to give enjoyment in the highest form, 
are limited, and are being constantly encroached upon. 
This encroachment takes four forms. There is the de- 
sire of private persons to appropriate beautiful scenery 
to themselves by enclosing it in private grounds and 
debarring the public from access to it. We in England 
and Scotland have lost some of the most beautiful scen- 
ery we possess because it has been taken into private 
estates. There is the habit of excluding people even 
from land uncultivated and remote from houses for the 
sake of "sport." A great deal of the finest scenery 
in Scotland is now practically unapproachable by the 
pedestrian or the artist or the naturalist because rich 
people have appropriated it to their own self -regarding 
purposes and insist on excluding the public. This is 
especially the case where the motive for exclusion is 
what is called sport. Sport is understood to mean 
killing God's creatures for man's amusement, and for 
the sake of this amusement the killing of deer and 



NATIONAL PARKS 395 

birds, an amusement which gives pleasure only to a 
handful of men very large areas in Britain (and 
some few also hi other parts of Europe) have been 
within the last sixty or seventy years closed against 
all the rest of the nation. 

The enjoyment of natural beauty is further threatened 
by the operations of the lumberman. He is a force 
we do not have to fear in Britain, because, timber 
no longer exists there in sufficient quantity to be an 
article of economic value to us, but it is a very serious 
question here. You have prodigious and magnificent 
forests; there are perhaps no others in the world 
comparable for extent and splendor with those you 
possess. These forests, especially those on the Cas- 
cade range and the Sierra Nevada, are now being cut 
down rapidly and ruthlessly. You cannot blame the 
men who are cutting and selling the timber ; timber is 
needed, and they want to drive their trade, but the 
process goes on too fast, and much of the charm of 
nature is lost, while the interests of the future are for- 
gotten. Superb woods of the huge Sequoia gigantea, 
the so-called Big Trees, were falling under the axe in 
the southern part of the Sierra Nevada in 1909, and 
it would take a thousand years to replace these giants. 
The same thing is happening in the Appalachian ranges 
in New England and in the Alleghanies southward 
from Pennsylvania, a country of great sylvan beauty. 
In many places, after the trees have been cut off, there 
is left an inextricable tangle of small boughs and twigs, 



396 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

so that when a dry year comes any spark will start a 
fire, and the fire rages among the dead boughs, and the 
land is so scorched that for many long years no great 
trees will rise to replace those that were destroyed. 

Note also that in recent years water power has, 
since scientific discoveries enabled it to be applied in 
the form of electricity, become an asset of great com- 
mercial value. You fortunately have an enormous 
supply of water power. No one will deny that a great 
deal of it, perhaps most of it, may be properly used 
for industrial purposes, but neither can it be doubted 
that it has been used in some places to the detriment, 
and even to the ruin, of scenery. It has been used at 
Niagara, for instance, to such an extent as to change 
completely the character of what was once the most 
beautiful waterfall landscape in the whole world. 
Those of you who did not see that landscape, as I did, 
forty-two years ago, with the long line of clear green 
water plunging over the precipice, the foaming splen- 
dour of the rapids above, and the tossing billows of the 
Whirlpool Gorge below, and so cannot contrast what 
is seen now with what was seen in those days, cannot 
know what a wretched shadow of its former self it has 
become not so much by the diminution of the flow 
of the river as by the hideous erections which line the 
shores and by the smoke from many a chimney that 
pollutes the air. It is not too late to repair what has 
been done, and I hope the day will come when the 
pristine flow of its waters will be restored, and when 



NATIONAL PARKS 397 

the devastating agencies will have been removed. That 
we will leave for a future generation which will have 
begun to appreciate scenery more highly than men did 
thirty years ago, when the ruin of which I speak was just 
beginning. One may say of the enterprising capitalists 
who have made fortunes out of this national possession 
what the Emperor Charles the Fifth said to the eccle- 
siastics of Cordova who had turned the central part of 
the great Mosque into a church. " You have destroyed 
something that was absolutely unique in the world in 
order to do something which could have been equally 
well done anywhere else." 

Taking all these causes together, you can see how 
many encroachments there are upon the unique beauty 
of your country ; and I beg you to consider that, al- 
though the United States is vast and has mountain and 
forest regions far more extensive than we can boast in 
little countries like England or Scotland, even your 
scenery is not inexhaustible, and, with your great popu- 
lation and the growing desire to enjoy the beauties of 
nature, you have not any more than you need. For- 
tunately, you have made a good beginning hi the work of 
conservation. You have led the world in the creation 
of National Parks. I have seen three or four of these, 
the Yosemite twice, the Yellowstone twice, and the 
splendid forest region which you have around that 
mountain which the people of Seattle now insist on 
calling Mount Rainier, no doubt the name originally 
given by Vancouver, but which used, when I wan- 



398 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

dered through its forests and traversed its glaciers, 
thirty years ago, to be called by the more sonorous 
Indian name, Tacoma. And there is also that superb 
reserve on the north side of the Grand Canon of the 
Colorado River, as well as Glacier Park in Mon- 
tana and others of minor extent in other parts 
of the country. The creation of such National Parks 
has not only been good for you, but has had the ad- 
mirable effect of setting other countries to emulate 
your example. Australia and New Zealand have fol- 
lowed that example. New Zealand, in the district of 
its hot springs and geysers, has dedicated to the public 
a scenic area something similar to your Yellowstone 
Park geyser region, though not on so extensive a scale ; 
the people of New South Wales have set off three 
beautiful National Parks within forty miles of the 
capital city of Sydney, taking mountain and forest 
regions of exquisite beauty and keeping them for a 
source of delight to the growing population of that city. 
Thus your example is bearing good fruit. I only wish 
it had come sooner to us in England and Scotland 
before we had permitted the control of so much of our 
own best scenery to pass into private ownership. 

One of the things your Association has to care for 
is not only the provision of more parks, but also the 
methods to be followed for keeping the existing parks in 
the best condition. I heard the other day that a ques- 
tion has been raised as to whether automobiles should 
be admitted in the Yosemite Valley. May a word be 



NATIONAL PARKS 399 

permitted on that subject ? If Adam had known what 
harm the serpent was going to work, he would have 
tried to prevent him from finding lodgment in Eden; 
and if you stop to realize what the result of the auto- 
mobile will be in that wonderful, that incomparable 
valley, you will keep it out. The one drawback to 
enjoyment of the Yosemite Valley in the summer and 
autumn is the dust. The granite rock becomes in the 
roads fine sand; even under existing conditions the 
feet of the horses and the wheels of the vehicles raise 
a great deal of it, enough to interfere with enjoyment 
as one drives or walks; but the conditions would 
become grievously worse with the swift automobile. 
And, further, the automobile would destroy what may 
be called the sentimental charm of the landscape. It 
is not merely that dust clouds would fill the air and coat 
the foliage, but the whole feeling of the spontaneity 
and freshness of primitive nature would be marred by 
this modern invention, with its din and whir and 
odious smell. Remember, moreover, that one cannot 
really enjoy fine scenery when travelling at a rate of 
fifteen to twenty or twenty-five miles an hour. If you 
want to enjoy the beauty of such landscapes as the Yo- 
semite presents, you must see them slowly. Fine scenery 
is seen best of all in walking, when one can stop at any 
moment and enjoy any special point of view, but 
it is also agreeably seen in riding or driving, because 
in moving at a pace of five or six miles an hour you 
are not going too fast to take in the minor beauties of 



400 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the landscape. But travelling faster than that and 
my experience is that chauffeurs so delight in speed 
that it is hard to get them to slacken even when you 
bid them you cannot enjoy the beauty. It was 
often my duty in the British Parliament to oppose bills 
conferring powers to build railways through some of the 
beautiful lake and valley scenery, scenery on a much 
smaller scale than that of this Continent, but quite as 
beautiful, which we possess in Britain. The advocates of 
the bills urged that passengers could look out at the land- 
scape from the windows of the railroad car. But we 
pointed out that it is impossible to get the full enjoy- 
ment of a romantic landscape from a railway window, 
especially where the beauties are delicate and the scale 
small. It is different where scenery is on a vast scale, 
so that the railway is insignificant in comparison, and 
the objects, rocks or mountains or rivers, are huge. 
There one may get some pleasure from the big views 
even as seen from a train, though they are far better 
seen in walking or driving, but you cannot enjoy the 
small beauties either of form or of colour. The focus is 
always changing, and it is impossible to give that kind 
of enjoyment which a painter, or any devotee of 
nature, seeks if you are hurrying past at a swift auto- 
mobile pace. Whoever loves fine scenery has a sort of 
feeling that he is wasting it when he passes through it 
on a train instead of on foot or driving in an open 
vehicle. 
It will of course be said that the automobile might 



NATIONAL PARKS 401 

be allowed to come up to the principal hotels and go 
no farther. If it is allowed to go so far as that, it will 
soon be allowed to go wherever else there is a road 
to bear it. Do not let the serpent enter Eden at all. 
Our friends who possess automobiles are numerous, 
wealthy, and powerful, but as all the rest of the North 
American Continent is open to them they are not 
gravely injured when one valley, besides parts of 
Mount Desert Island, is reserved for those who walk 
or ride. It is no intolerable hardship to be required 
to forgo in one spot a convenience which none of us 
had twenty years ago and which the great majority of 
our fellow-creatures cannot afford to pay for now. At 
present the railway comes to an end some twelve miles 
away from the entrance of the Yosemite Park, and 
the drive up to it behind horses gives far more pleas- 
ure than a journey by rail or motor car possibly could. 
There are plenty of roads elsewhere for the lovers of 
speed and noise, without intruding on these few places 
where the wood nymphs and the water nymphs ought 
to be allowed to remain in untroubled seclusion, and 
their true worshippers to have the landscape to them- 
selves. 

Let me pay a tribute to the taste and judgment 
with which, as it seemed to me when I visited the 
valley in 1909, the park and the hotels in the Yo- 
semite were being managed. There were no offensive 
signs, no advertisements of medicines, no other external 
disfigurements to excite horror, and the inns were all 

3D 



402 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of moderate size, plain but sufficiently comfortable and 
not more than two stories high. I earnestly hope 
that the administration will always be continued on 
these lines, with this same regard for landscape beauty. 
Now, a word about additional parks. Although you 
have set a wholesome example in creating those I have 
mentioned and some others, there are still other places 
where National Parks are wanted. There is a splendid 
region in the Alleghanies, a region of beautiful forests, 
where the tulip trees lift their tall, smooth shafts 
and graceful heads one hundred and fifty feet or more 
into the air, a mountain land on the borders of 
North Carolina and East Tennessee, with romantic 
river valleys and hills clothed with luxuriant woods, 
primitive forests standing as they stood before the 
white man drove the Indians away, high lawns filled 
with flowers and traversed by sparkling brooks, con- 
taining everything to delight the heart of the lover 
of nature. It would be a fine thing to have a tract 
of three or four hundred thousand acres set apart 
here for the benefit of the people of the South and 
Middle Atlantic States, for whom it is a far cry 
to the Rockies. Then you ought to have one or 
two additional parks in Colorado and Montana 
also. As regards the Northeast Atlantic States, what 
seems to be most wanted is to preserve the forests of 
the White and Green Mountains. Perhaps it is not 
necessary to set apart in that country a National Park 
in the same sense as that which might be thought 



NATIONAL PARKS 403 

requisite in the Alleghanies, because the mountains are 
so high and rocky, and so little ground is suitable for 
cultivation on the steeper slopes, that it is not likely 
they will be inclosed, and probably hardly necessary 
that a public authority should step in to save them. 
But in some parts of the White Mountains, for instance, 
it would be an excellent thing to create large forest 
reserves, where the trees should be under protection 
of the National or State Government, being cut by 
them as required, and the forests replanted as they are 
cut. Recent legislation has already made a beginning 
with this good work. The sale of the timber would 
more than cover the costs of management and the in- 
terest on the purchase money. In this way you would 
keep a place where the beauty of the woodlands would 
remain for all generations, and where they would be 
so cared for that the present danger of forest fires 
would be averted. 

There is one question that comes very near to you 
in Baltimore, and also to us in Washington, on which I 
would like to speak a word. You know there is a great 
deal of charming forest country between Baltimore 
and Washington. A good deal of it is forest of the 
second growth, some few small bits of it are of the first 
growth ; but even that of the second contains a great 
number of beautiful, fine-grown trees. The land is 
of no considerable value, and I believe it could now 
be purchased at a low price. I have heard it sug- 
gested that thirty-six dollars an acre would be an aver- 



404 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

age price for the land, on which a great quantity of 
timber remains. Having frequently taken walking 
excursions from Washington into the country from 
ten to fifteen or twenty miles around the city, I have 
been struck with the beauty and profusion of the 
wild flowers. The flora of that region, being a sort of 
blend of the flora of the North Atlantic States with 
some of the plants and flowers which belong to the 
South Atlantic region, is of great interest to the scien- 
tific botanist. Baltimore, Philadelphia, and Washing- 
ton are all swiftly growing cities. What could be done 
better for the inhabitants of these three cities than to 
secure for their enjoyment a large part of this forest 
land and set it apart, forever free from private purposes 
or use of agriculture, and keep it as a forest reserve, 
to be managed scientifically, so that it should pay for 
the expense of working it by the timber which could 
be cut and sold on well-planned scientific lines, and 
should afford a place where people could go and wan- 
der about at their own sweet will, just as the old 
settlers did when they first came here ? Here the auto- 
mobile would do no harm on the main roads, because 
there would be plenty of byways and forest footpaths. 
If the automobilist wants to be whirled along the 
roads, let him have his way, but keep wide sylvan 
spaces where those who seek quiet and the sense of 
communing with nature can go out in the early morn- 
ing from the city and spend a whole day enjoying one 
spot after another where nature has provided her 



NATIONAL PARKS 405 

simple joys, mingled shade and sunlight falling on the 
long vistas of the forest, the ripple and the murmur of 
a streamlet, the rustling of the leaves, and the birds 
singing among the branches. These gifts can here be 
offered to the man condemned to spend most of his 
life in cities, and when nature has provided them in 
such bountiful measure ought not the opportunity to 
be taken to secure them? 

Shall we who make these plans be accused of treat- 
ing this subject in a sentimental way? Well, I con- 
fess these arguments are not addressed to those who 
think that man lives by bread alone, or who recognize 
no values except those measured by dollars and cents. 
It is because the members of this Association are not 
of that mind that such considerations are submitted. 
A century hence there will be in North America, if 
things go on as they are going on now, far more people, 
far more lovers of nature, and also fewer places in 
which nature can be enjoyed. 

Now let me try to give some logical quality to 
these rambling reflections by submitting a few propo- 
sitions in order. 

The world seems likely to last a long, long time, and 
we ought to make provision for the future. 

The population of the world is increasing rapidly, 
and most rapidly in North America. 

The taste for natural beauty is also increasing, and, 
as we hope, will continue to increase. 

The places of scenic beauty do not increase, but, on 



406 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

the contrary, are in danger of being reduced in num- 
ber and diminished in quantity. This is due chiefly 
to the accumulation of wealth. Forests are cut 
down, water power is appropriated, rich men buy 
up tracts of land and frequently seek to exclude the 
public from them. Accordingly, no better service can be 
rendered to the masses of the people than to preserve 
for their delight wide spaces of fine scenery. 

We must carefully guard what we have got, and 
must extend the policy which you have wisely adopted 
in creating your existing National Parks, by acquiring 
and preserving further areas for the perpetual enjoy- 
ment of the people. 

Let us think of the future. We are trustees for the 
future. We are not here for ourselves alone. All 
these gifts were not given to us to be used by one gen- 
eration, or with the thought of one generation only 
before our minds. We are the heirs of those who have 
gone before, and charged with the duty we owe to 
those who come after, and there is no duty which seems 
more clearly incumbent on us than that of handing on 
to them undiminished opportunities and facilities for 
the enjoyment of some of the best gifts that the 
Creator has bestowed upon his children. 



ADDRESS TO THE PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY or NEW YORK, 
DECEMBER 14, 1912. 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED 
STATES 

ADDRESS TO THE PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, 
DECEMBER 14, 1912. 

IT is a real pleasure to be the guest of The Penn- 
sylvania Society. Every student of history must be 
profoundly interested in the annals of the State of 
Pennsylvania, not merely in respect of its famous 
founder, one of the most remarkable Englishmen of 
the seventeenth century, but also because it is in a 
sense typical of this whole country. Your State 
is remarkable for having been from very early days 
the seat of three different elements of population 
which have gradually become blent, yet not so blent 
as to lose traces of their former diversity. Three sets of 
colonists long ago entered and settled down in and made 
the prosperity and greatness of Pennsylvania in its 
formative years, just as in days far later many different 
races came hither across the sea and added themselves 
to the original Anglo-Saxon population who had been 
the first settlers of this eastern coast of North America. 
Here in Pennsylvania you had the English Quakers, 
then the Germans, who came in a little later, many of 
them also pious men belonging to various German 

409 



410 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

sects, and, lastly, the Scotch-Irish, people very unlike 
the other two, except in their being also pious, though 
in a quite different way. The Quakers and the 
Germans fulfilled the dictum that the meek shall 
inherit the earth, because they took up and retained 
all the best lands. The Scotch-Irish, who came last, 
were obliged to content themselves with the moun- 
tains and the Indians, and they braced themselves 
to deal with both. They developed a manly, bold, pug- 
nacious type of pioneer and frontiersman, and they 
have retained the old character in your western hills 
just like their relatives in the northeastern parts of 
Ireland. Plenty of the old combative spirit in both 
regions. They had a lively time in early Pennsylvania, 
for these three sections were divided not only by politi- 
cal feelings and by agricultural rivalries, but also by reli- 
gious and ecclesiastical differences. In those days diver- 
gences of doctrine cut pretty deep and roused far more 
feeling than they would to-day, even in the pacific 
breasts of members of the Society of Friends. An 
occasion is recorded on which a Quaker went so far 
that he was with difficulty restrained from discharging 
a gun, which unluckily happened to be in his hands, 
into the body of a Presbyterian, having apparently 
been incensed by an intimation on the part of the 
Calvinist that predestination was going to give that 
particular Quaker no prospect of felicity in the world 
to come. 
I must, however, pass away from the State of Penn- 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 411 

sylvania and its fortunes, to the subject allotted to me 
the Constitution of the United States ; a small 
subject indeed, is it not ? and easy to deal with in the 
few minutes at my command. 

Let me begin by one remark, about which there will 
be no difference of opinion : It was a most extraordi- 
nary body of men that gathered together one hun- 
dred a ad twenty-five years ago to frame the Constitu- 
tion of the United States. Never did such a group of 
brilliant and powerful intellects, men trained by an 
experience of affairs, assemble together .for so great an 
undertaking as the framing of the Constitution for a 
nation. And the best proof of the success which at- 
tended their efforts is to be found in the fact that 
the Constitution which they framed for a nation that 
then only a little exceeded 3,000,000 people has been 
found now to fit the needs of 93,000,000. It may not 
fit those needs perfectly, but it is extraordinary that it 
should fit them at all. 

In that group there were three men, Washington, 
Franklin, and Hamilton, whose fame belongs to the 
history of the world, and one of those three, Benjamin 
Franklin, came as a delegate from the State of Penn- 
sylvania. Among the others, eminent men, even if 
they did not attain unto those first three, one of the 
most eminent came also as a delegate from the State 
of Pennsylvania. I mean James Wilson ; a Scotsman 
from Fife who had few equals and possibly no superior 
in that Convention, as respects either the acuteness 



412 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

of his mind, or his penetration and sagacity ; a man to 
whom some of the best features of the Constitution 
were due, and who, by his speeches in your Pennsyl- 
vania convention held to consider the draft prepared 
by the Convention, added an illuminating commentary 
upon many provisions of the Constitution, and no doubt 
contributed materially to its adoption, both in your 
State and in the other States of the Union. 

Now, I am under certain restraints here. I re- 
member a time in England when young Liberal orators 
used to glorify the British Constitution as " the para- 
gon of the world," "the perfection of human wisdom," 
nor did the other party abound any less in praise, for 
each party claimed that the Constitution embodied its 
own distinctive principles. So here too both parties and 
both sections of the country vied in their admiration 
of your Constitution, for both insisted that the ven- 
erable instrument, if correctly interpreted, supported 
its own tenets. But in England those paeans of praise 
are now seldom heard ; and here in America the Con- 
stitution seems to be drifting down the stream of time 
into the neighbourhood of the icebergs of controversy. 
Accordingly I must not allow myself to approach any 
questions which are becoming issues between parties. I 
cannot leap over the wire fence which incloses the rep- 
resentative of another country and, like my distin- 
guished friend, the Attorney-General, prance and gallop 
far and wide in the open plains of politics. From any 
discussion of whether and how the Constitution ought 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 413 

to be amended, I must refrain, but I am free to speak 
of what it has been in the past, and may examine the 
working of certain usages that have grown up under it 
which neither party is concerned to defend or to attack 
and which are now exposing it to unmerited censure. 

The whole history of your country since 1789 has been 
a commentary upon the services rendered by the Con- 
stitution. The greatest of all the services it could ren- 
der and did render, was the spirit which it implanted in 
the hearts of your people. Perhaps I ought not to say 
"implanted," for the spirit was already there, and the 
function of the Constitution was to confirm and develop 
it. Your ancestors brought from England the prin- 
ciple of deference for law, and the sentiment which 
desired to unite Liberty with Order, but that spirit 
was immensely strengthened and its roots deepened by 
the provisions of the Constitution, which combined, 
as no instrument had ever done before, a respect for 
the settled rule of law, with a recognition of the sov- 
ereignty of the people. It showed how the popular 
will can express itself through prescribed forms, with 
such due regard for and observance of legal methods 
as to avoid the dangers of sudden impulses and hasty 
action, while also in such a way as ultimately to give 
complete effect to the sober and deliberate purpose of 
the people. 

Some critics, both here and in Europe, have made it a 
reproach against the Constitution that it did not 
avert the War of Secession, and others have gone so 



414 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

far as to suggest that its failing to either recognize or 
deny the right of a State or States to secede was itself 
a proximate cause of the war by giving each party an 
arguable legal case. To this criticism the answer is 
that if such a provision had been placed in the Consti- 
tution there might probably never have been any 
Constitution at all. Whether any legal instrument 
could have prevented a split and a conflict where eco- 
nomic differences were so marked, where each section 
of the nation misunderstood the other, and where pas- 
sion had in one of them risen to white heat, may well 
be doubted. Legal forms may do much, but cannot 
do everything. So far as we can now judge, there was 
only one thing would have enabled the South and the 
North to hold together, and that thing was unattain- 
able. It has probably struck some of you that had the 
United States remained in political connection with the 
mother country, there would have been no Civil War. 
South and North fought because there was no one to 
mediate between and try to reconcile them. Had they 
been part of a British nation there might have been 
indeed, would almost certainly have been mediation. 
The question of slavery, if indeed slavery had been still 
in existence, would no doubt have been a question for 
themselves to settle, for long before 1861 they would 
have been enjoying a self-government at least as large 
as Canada and Australia now enjoy under the British 
flag. But as members of one British people, both 
North and South would have been kept in union as 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 415 

parts of a larger whole, and the influence of the rest 
of the British people at home would have been suffi- 
cient to soften antagonisms and bring about a peaceable 
solution. 

The Constitution could not avert the Civil War, but 
it maintained the ideal of national unity all through the 
Civil War, and it enabled the wounds which the war had 
made to be subsequently healed with a rapidity and 
completeness which amazed the world. During and for 
some time after the Civil War it rendered a service 
such as no legal instrument had ever rendered to a peo- 
ple before. You had enormous difficulties then. The 
difficulties during the war, when it was all that the 
President could do to avoid putting a strain on the 
Constitution, were hardly more alarming than those 
that came later in that sad and troublous period of 
reconstruction through which your Southern brothers 
passed. The situation would have been almost hope- 
less but for the fact that the Constitution laid down 
the lines upon which each Southern State should be 
ultimately restored to self-government and again take 
its place as a self-governing member of the Union. 
When Reconstruction was over, and when, in and after 
1877, more normal relations were reestablished in the 
South, the Constitution again became a rallying point 
for the patriotic sentiment of the whole people and 
for their devotion to the principles which had originally 
made it strong and your nation great. Your National 
unity, never so conspicuous or so firmly entrenched as 



4i6 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

it is to-day, is largely due to the fact that you all have 
revered and trusted and walked by your now venerable 
Constitution. 

True it is that all constitutions must needs be sus- 
ceptible of such amendments or developments as are 
needed to adapt them to the changing circumstances 
which time brings with them. As Bacon says, " That 
which man changeth not for the better Time changeth 
for the worse." But you will also observe that all 
constitutions, and all systems of free governments 
everywhere, require something to steady them. Now, 
we in England, who have no documentary consti- 
tution placed above the other laws of the country, 
where every arrangement of the government can 
be at any moment changed by the power of the 
people acting through their representatives in Parlia- 
ment, we in England have steadying forces in the 
existence of long traditions, and of powerful classes 
who have held great influence throughout the whole 
nation. In France there has been and is a steady- 
ing influence in the existence of a large number of 
small landed proprietors attached to the rights of 
property. In Germany a similar influence may be 
found, not only in the presence of a strong monarchy 
and of a landholding class which has commanded the 
deference of the people for centuries, but also in an 
exceedingly able and highly trained civil service, 
which administers public affairs. You in this country 
have neither the social classes of Continental Europe 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 417 

nor have you the power of a civil service like that of 
Germany. But as you also need some steadying ele- 
ment, you have found it in the respect for your Con- 
stitution. It has made your traditions. It has been 
revered as a sort of palladium of ordered liberty. 
Whatever changes you now think fit to make in 
your Constitution you will, I am sure, never forget 
that ballast as well as sails are needed if a ship is to 
pursue with safety her course over seas that are some- 
times stormy. 

There are, as you all know, two chief parts or 
branches of the Federal Constitution that which 
creates the system of National Government, with its 
three departments, and that which defines the relation 
of the National Government to the governments and 
people of the States. Of these two the former part, 
which establishes the frame of National Government, 
has been criticized, and in some points unfavourably, 
both by your own statesmen and by foreign observers, 
much more than has the latter part, which determines 
the relations between the National Government and the 
States. Now let me ask you to note that these criti- 
cisms upon the practical working of the frame of 
national government are really in the main criticisms 
not of the Constitution itself but of usages which have 
grown up under it but are no part of it and could be 
changed at any moment by Congress or by the action 
of the people themselves. 

One of the complaints most frequently heard is that 

2E 



418 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

members of Congress have been tending to become too 
much mere local delegates, rather than members of the 
great council of the Nation, and that they are so active 
in furthering the interest each of his own constituency 
and his own State, that they think too little, and care 
too little, for the general interests of the whole people, 
though it is itself more than ever One People. If the 
facts are as these censors assert, and you can judge 
better than I whether the censors are right, what is 
the cause ? Not any provision of the Constitution but 
the habit which has prevailed and prevails to-day, of 
confining the choice of a member of Congress to persons 
resident in the particular Congressional district, and the 
habit which the people of the district have formed of ex- 
pecting Congress to appropriate money for local pur- 
poses. Such usages are no parts of democracy, for there 
are other democratic countries in which they do not 
prevail. They inevitably tend to narrow a member's 
views as well as his activities, and they prevent an 
able man who by some turn of the political tide has 
lost his seat in the place where he resides from obtaining 
a seat elsewhere. Nearly all your own leading men, as 
well as foreign observers, think that you lose immensely 
by the exclusion from Congress of so many of your 
strongest intellects, and they regret the persistence 
of the habit. Take the case of such a statesman, 
eminent both by his talents and by the purity and eleva- 
tion of his character, as the late Mr. Carl Schurz, who 
after he left Missouri to settle in New York City could 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 419 

never find entrance to Congress. In Britain, more 
democratic in most respects than this country, nearly 
all the eminent statesmen of the last sixty years have 
represented constituencies in which they did not re- 
side, and represented them quite as efficiently as resi- 
dents could have done. This is common in Australia 
also, a country more democratic than either the United 
States or Great Britain. 

Another feature of the present working of your 
National Government which I have heard constantly 
criticized by thoughtful American statesmen is that 
the separation of the legislative and executive depart- 
ments has been carried too far by the custom which 
does not allow the ministers of the President access 
to the floor of Congress to speak and to be interro- 
gated there. Now this custom has grown up inde- 
pendently of the Constitution. It is not a part of the 
Constitution, and Congress has therefore the power 
at any time to alter if it should think fit. Foreign 
observers who are accustomed to the methods of 
the free countries of Europe think that you are sac- 
rificing a valuable means of bringing your legislative 
and your executive authorities into a natural and 
easy and constant harmony by your forbidding them 
to come together in the way I have mentioned. They 
are allowed so to come together in Switzerland. Swit- 
zerland has a federal constitution like yours. Switzer- 
land, like you, does not permit the members of the 
Administration, which there consists of a body of 



420 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

seven persons called the Federal Council, to be elected 
to and sit in either House of its federal legislature ; but 
it permits them and encourages them to be present in 
either House, and when I have been attending the 
debates of the federal legislature in Switzerland I have 
seen the members of the Federal Council, sometimes 
in the one House, sometimes in the other, interrogated 
by members upon questions relating to the adminis- 
tration of their departments, answering those questions, 
giving the fullest information upon every executive 
act done or perhaps even contemplated by them, and 
at the same time addressing the members of the legis- 
lature upon the measures that were pending there, 
stating their views, telling them what was wanted, in 
the way of money or otherwise, to increase the efficiency 
of the several executive departments, and answering 
any objections which the members of the legislature 
could advance. No Swiss doubts that such a plan is 
for the good of Switzerland. The Swiss Government, 
take it all in all, seems to be the most successful and 
one of the most stable among the democratic govern- 
ments of the world, and could not possibly work as 
smoothly and successfully as it does work but for this 
practice and, as you know, the plan of admitting 
Cabinet Ministers to speak in Congress has been rec- 
ommended by many of your own statesmen, as, for 
instance, by President Garfield. 

Any proposal for the admission of Cabinet Ministers 
to the floor of either House, to be questioned there 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 421 

and to speak there, well deserves to be considered 
as a possible improvement in the conduct of busi- 
ness by Congress. To suggest that the Constitution 
itself ought to be so altered as to permit ministers 
to be elected to and vote in Congress would be quite 
another matter, for it would raise different and far 
wider issues. It would mean a change in your whole 
scheme of government. Our English system what 
we call our Cabinet and Parliamentary System is no 
doubt a far more prompt and a far more effective way 
of bringing the will of the people to bear upon the 
government than your system is here. As I have 
already observed, we in Great Britain are in reality far 
more of a democracy "than you are. The will of the 
people declared in an election of the members of the 
House of Commons, is able to act more quickly, more 
promptly, with a more tremendous and compelling 
force, in Britain than it can here. We do not have 
your checks and balances. But it may well be doubted 
whether the British system, however it may work with 
I us, would be a safe one for a country so vast and varied 
in its parts as yours. There is, however, every reason 
to think that Congress itself would find a great advan- 
tage in having the Ministers of the President before it 
on the floor, so that it could address questions to them, 
as ministers are daily questioned in our Parliament. 
British ministers are obliged to tell Parliament every- 
thing that is being done in the course of our adminis- 
tration which it is not inconsistent with the public 



422 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

service to disclose. They must answer all questions put 
to them about what they are doing, and how they are 
doing it, and why they are doing it. It is good for them. 
Like other ministers, I have, when a member of the 
British cabinet, sometimes found the process tiresome. 
But I never doubted that it was a good thing for 
everybody concerned. Ministers are all the better for 
having to stand that ordeal. You here would soon 
find the benefit of it. Every minister would feel it to 
be an advantage and a help to him in his work if he 
were able, when his departmental experience has shown 
him that some measure is urgently needed, to come to 
Congress and argue the matter out with either House 
on its own floor and tell them, not by written words, 
but by the spoken word, which is far more effective, 
why he thinks the measure is needed and what are the 
arguments by which he would support it. And you 
can all see how much Congress would gain by the more 
thorough knowledge of the workings and the needs of 
the departments which it would gain. 

Others conceive that the special functions of the 
Senate or perhaps the machinery by which these 
functions are exercised, require to be reconsidered in 
view of the fact that when they were assigned to it 
the Senate had only twenty-six members, whereas it 
has now ninety-six. If anything of that kind needs 
to be done, it could probably be done without altering 
the Constitution, just as a usage which had come to be 
recognized by common consent as being one of the 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 423 

greatest evils in the working of the National Govern- 
ment was dealt with. I refer to the Spoils System. 
That system arose outside the Constitution. It has 
been now much reduced and indeed seems likely to be 
soon expunged by measures requiring no change in the 
Constitution. So also that scheme of national nomi- 
nating conventions, which now seems likely to be 
superseded by a system of nominating primaries, arose 
altogether outside the Constitution, and had never 
even any statutory character. 

As regards the other part of your Constitution, that 
which concerns the relations of the States with the 
National Government, you may rest happy in the 
thought that it has received the almost unqualified 
admiration of the whole world. I will not say that 
there may not be minor points in which it is susceptible 
of improvement. Probably there are some directions 
in which the progress of time has made it desirable to 
expand a little the legislative authority of Congress. 
Many have argued, for instance, in favour of extending 
that authority to the establishment of a uniform law 
of marriage and divorce. Others would extend the 
range of federal authority over railroads, and would 
recognize in the National Government a much longer 
power of creating and supervising corporations. Others 
have indicated the need for some more prompt and 
effective method than now exists of securing the due 
observance by each and every State of treaty obliga- 
tions undertaken by the National Government. There 



424 UNIVERSITY AND HISTORICAL ADDRESSES 

may be points in which the State authorities them- 
selves could be induced to desire that it should be 
more easy to pass uniform legislation for the whole 
country. 

Still, looking at the general federal scheme in a 
broad way, can anything be more clear, can anything 
be more rational in theory or more convenient in appli- 
cation to practice than the general principles by which 
the relations of the States and the National Govern- 
ment have been fixed and determined ? The prin- 
ciples are as clear, as philosophically conceived, and as 
precisely expressed as it is possible for the human in- 
tellect to have conceived and expressed them, and they 
have been worked out by your successive Administra- 
tions, by Congress, and most of all by your Judicial 
Bench, with an infinite and admirable delicacy in detail. 
The best testimony to the excellence of your system is 
to be found in the influence that it has had upon other 
countries. It is an interesting fact that your Consti- 
tution and ours have been, in their general lines, the 
patterns of all modern free constitutions. The British 
Constitution has been taken as being more or less a 
model by all the free governments that have been 
established in Europe and in the British Colonies 
since 1815. Your Constitution has been taken as a 
model imperfect as some of the reproductions have 
been by the republican governments that have been 
established in every part of the western world, that 
is to say, in South America and in Central America, 



THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 425 

and it has also had a profound influence not only on 
the latest constitution of Switzerland, that of 1874, 
but also upon the federal constitutions of Canada, of 
Australia, and of South Africa. 

It was the glory of our two countries to have held 
the torch of liberty aloft in days when there were 
hardly any other free governments in the world and 
when the dumb populations lay prostrate at the feet 
of arbitrary power. And it has been the glory of your 
country in later days to render another great service 
to humanity, by showing how it is possible to establish 
and maintain national unity over the vast spaces of a 
continent, and at the same time to secure the fullest 
development of self-government in State, in county, 
and in city over those vast spaces. That was a problem 
which would have been deemed hopeless and insoluble 
a century and a half ago, but the example of your suc- 
cess has now set your system on high as a beacon for 
the world to follow. Your Constitution, by the ex- 
ample it has set of its working and by the halo of 
fame which now surrounds it, has become one of the 
vital and vitalizing forces of the modern world. Let us 
honour the group of illustrious men who, meeting in 
Philadelphia one hundred and twenty-five years ago, 
rendered this incomparable and enduring service not 
to you only, but also to all mankind. 



INDEX 



Acton, Lord, as a historical writer, 352; 
method followed by, in reading, 
382-383. 

Alleghany Mountains, desirability of a 
national park in the, 401402. 

Allegiance to Humanity, address on, 
247 ff. 

Allen, Ethan, 272. 

America, as the land of hope to Euro- 
peans, 36. 

American Civic Association, address 
before the, 389 ff . 

American Institute of Architects, ad- 
dresses to the, 171 ff., 181 ff. 

Anarchy, the enemy of true liberty, 14 ; 
principle of the Common Law which 
is a safeguard against, 46-47. 

Ancient Literature, address on the Study 
of, 317 ff. 

Anecdotes, use of, in public speaking, 
290291. 

Antrim, Scotch-Irish in, 217-218. 

Appeal in criminal cases in England, 64. 

Architecture and History, address on, 
iSiff. 

Architecture, advantages and disad- 
vantages of the profession of, 184- 
186; comparison of, with the study 
of law, 186-187; affiliation of, with 
history, 187-188; European monu- 
ments of, 189-190 ; present lack of 
originality in, 191-194; examples 
of, and magnificence of conception 
of, in America, 194-195. 

Aristotle, critically exact spirit found 
in, 349. 

Armaments, the increase in military 
and naval, 251-253. 

Art, appreciation of pleasures of, to be 
derived from literary training, 28-29. 

Athletics, excessive passion for, at uni- 
versities, 240-242. 

Augustine, St., 129. 



Australia, national parks in, 398. 
Automobiles in national parks, 398-401, 

404. 
Avila, architecture of churches of, 188. 



B 



Bacon, Sir Francis, 3. 

Balboa, 269. 

Bancroft, George, 345. 

Bible, decreasing familiarity with the, 
327-328. 

Big Trees of the Sierra Nevada, preser- 
vation of, 395. 

Boniface, St., 129. 

Books, the choice of, 367 ff. 

Bracton, early legal writer, 66. 

Brevity in speeches, 295-296. 

Bright, John, as a speaker, 293-294; 

Brooks, Phillips, rapidity of, in speak- 
ing, 293. 

Brougham, Lord, on fluency in public 
speaking, 284. 

Browning, Robert, the reading of works 
of, 374- 

Brunton, Miss, Scottish authoress, 374. 

Buckle's "History of Civilization," 356. 

Burke, Edmund, 222. 

Business, devotion to, of the normal 
American, 319-320; the study of 
ancient literature as an offset to 
absorption in, 338. 



Cabinet, the, in English legislative 
system, 94. 

Cabinet members, admission of, to 
floor of houses of Congress recom- 
mended, 419-421. 

Cabots, the, 269. 

Cairns, Lord, a Scotch-Irishman, 220. 

Cairo, seat of learning at, 154. 

California, University of, address de- 
livered at, 227 ff. 



427 



428 



INDEX 



California, a country as well as a state, 
229; progress of, in material develop- 
ment, 231-232; growth of cities in, 
at expense of the country, 235 ; great- 
ness of the future possible for, 244- 

245- 

Calhoun, John C., 215. 

Calvinism and the Scottish race, 215. 

"Cambridge Modern History," lack 
of superfluous literary ornament in 
the, 351. 

Cambridge University, beginnings of, 
153-154; ideals and aims of, 157-160. 

Canova, work of, in sculpture, 174-175 

Carlyle, Thomas, tendency to public 
speaking deplored by, 283 ; mingled 
scientific and literary treatment in 
historical work of, 352. 

Certainty, characteristic of, in the Com- 
mon Law, 47-48. 

Champlain, Lake, address on the Ter- 
centenary of the Discovery of, 265 ff. 

Champlain, Samuel de, 8; fine char- 
acter of, 269270; aims of, in ex- 
plorations, 273; Lake Champlain 
a lasting memorial to, 279. 

Charlemagne, character of mission 
work of, 129. 

Chattanooga, address before Missionary 
Convention at, 125 ff. 

Chicago, boldness of architectural plans 
for, 195. 

Chicago University Address, 15 ff. 

Christianity, causes retarding world- 
wide spread of, 137 ff. See Missions. 

Cicero, discourse of, on poetry, 284. 

Cities, life in, contrasted with life in 
the country, 235-236; necessity of 
sound political conditions in, 237- 
238; opportunities open to, for work 
for citizens, 238. 

Citizens, dependence of strength of a 
state on character of its, 37-38. 

Civil War, effects of the American, as 
felt by Virginia, n; the Constitution 
and the, 413-416. 

Classical studies, the purpose of, 319 ff. 

Classics, time to be devoted to reading 
of, 378. 

Clearness in public speaking, 286-287. 

Colonial type of architecture, 192. 

Columba, St., 129. 

Columbus, Christopher, the spirit which 
actuated, 8, 269. 



Common Law, address on the Influ- 
ence of National Character and His- 
torical Environment on Develop- 
ment of the, 41 ff . ; distinguishing 
qualities of the, 45 ff. ; conception 
of rights of the individual citizen, 
45-46; recognition of the state and 
the executive as clothed with the 
authority of the whole community, 
46-47 ; the principles of precision, 
definiteness, and exactitude in, 47- 
49; respect for forms of legal pro- 
ceedings, 49 ; love of justice and fond- 
ness for subtle distinctions, 49-50; 
influence on, of qualities of race of 
men who built it up, 51 ff.; slavery 
under the, 59-60 ; the jury as a feature 
of, 60-62; technicality of the older, 
62-64; causes leading to growth 
of system of Equity, 64; effect of 
England's insular position on char- 
acter of, 65-67; features of, derived 
from Roman law, 67; reaction of, 
on character of people who created 
it, 68-69; importance of, for the 
political system of the United States, 
69-70; essentially identical character 
of, in England and America, 70-71 ; 
a main factor in the greatness of the 
nation, 7172. 

Congress, customs of, open to discus- 
sion, 417422. 

Constitution, Virginia's part in fram- 
ing of, lo-n ; address on the, 407 ff. ; 
the men who framed the, 411-412; 
decrease in unqualified admiration 
for, 412; influence of, in the Civil 
War, 413-415 ; as a steadying ele- 
ment in the state, 416-417; criti- 
cisms of, in the main criticisms of 
usages grown up around, 417 ff. 

Cooperative methods among farmers, 
237- 

Corporations, legislative difficulties 
raised by, 97. 

Cortez, Hernando, 8. 

Cromwell, Oliver, 4. 



D 



Dante, loss from reading, in a trans- 
lation, 335-336. 
Darwin, Charles, 197. 
Dead languages, the so-called, 28. 



INDEX 



429 



Declaration of Independence, the Ameri- 
can, log, no. 

Delivery, importance of, in public speak- 
ing, 202-293. 

De Soto, 269. 

"Dictionary of National Biography," 
style followed in, 350-351. 

Digby, Sir Kenelm, 71. 

Down, Scotch-Irish in, 217. 

Dryden, amount of, necessary to read, 

374- 

Dulness, avoidance of, in public speak- 
ing, 291-292. 

E 

Ecclesiastical history, importance of 
study of, 342-343. 

Education, effects of modern science 
as felt by, 1718; comparison of 
value of scientific and of literary, 19; 
comparison of scientific and of literary, 
as to intellectual enjoyment in later 
life, 20 ff. ; effect of, on man in re- 
gard to politics, 116-117; effect of, 
on public spirit, 121-122; devotion 
to truth to be instilled by, 122-123, 
168 ; specialization in, 303 ff . ; stimu- 
lation of curiosity the chief end of, 
312; one main use of a university 
education to arouse interests and tastes 
outside of business, 320, 338. 

England, in the i7th century, 34; 
adventurers and explorers of, con- 
trasted with those of Spain, 9 ; present- 
day pride of, in American republic, 
12-13; system of Parliamentary 
legislation in, 76 ff. ; the universities 
of, 157-160; restoration of ecclesi- 
astical edifices in, 180-191 ; honour 
paid to the memory of Lincoln in, 
200, 203 ; steadying forces in the 
political structure of, 416. 

English land law, 57. 

Equity, Common Law and the system of, 
64-65. 

Ethics, as a field for intellectual enjoy- 
ment, 26-27. 

Explorers, distinguishing qualities of 
the early, 89, 268-269. 



Fiction, the reading of, 374-377. 
Fluency, advantages and dangers of, 
in public speaking, 284-285. 



Forests, preservation of American, 277, 
395. 

France, legislative method in, 95; 
steadying forces in social and political 
structure of, 416. 

Franklin, Benjamin, 346, 411. 

Freedom, value placed on, by settlers 
of Virginia, 9; relation of, to a peo- 
ple's ability to govern themselves, 
114115; necessity of, in university 
teaching, 164. 

Freeman, E. A., 345, 348. 

Friendships, as one gam of college life, 
167-168. 

Froude, J. A., 346. 

Fulton, Robert, a Scotch-Irishman, 216. 



Gall, St., missionary to the Germans, 129. 

Galloway, Scotch-Irish in, 219. 

Gallon, Francis, manual compiled by, 
188. 

Gardiner, S. R., 348. 

General education and special educa- 
tion, 301-315. 

Germany, universities of, 156-157; 
settlers from, in Pennsylvania, 409- 
410; influences which are steadying 
elements in, 416. 

Gibbon, Edward, 345. 

Glacier Park, Montana, 398. 

Gladstone, William, 197. 

Grammar, use of, as a study, 321. 

Grand Cafion of the Colorado, 397- 
398. 

Great Britain, classes of legal enactments 
in, 77 ff. 

Great men, value of, as national posses- 
sions, 203-204. 

Greek, the study of, 319, 320, 321, 
323, 324 ff. 

Green, J. R., historical style of, 352- 
353- 

Green Mountain Boys, the, 271-272. 

Green Mountains, forest preserves in 
the, 402. 

Guicciardini, historical style of, 351. 

Guizot, French historian, 347. 

H 

Hague Court, the, 250. 
Hallam, Henry, 345. 
Hamilton, Alexander, 411. 



430 



INDEX 



Hampden, John, 4. 

Heidelberg University, founding of, 154. 

Henry, Patrick, 215. 

Herodotus, an originator of historical 
composition, 343-344- 

History, intellectual enjoyment from 
study of, 26; risk of too close atten- 
tion to dry details and exact methods 
in, 30; address on Architecture and, 
181 fi. ; architecture the interpreter 
of, 187; specialization in study of, 
305-306; wherein lies the profit of 
knowledge of, 320; literature the 
best source of knowledge of, 320-330; 
the classical age of Greece and Rome 
as an introduction to, 330331 ; ad- 
dress on the Writing and Teaching 
of, 339 ff. ; present zeal for, contrasted 
with earlier lack of interest at uni- 
versities, 341342 ; importance of 
study of ecclesiastical, 342-343 ; the 
scientific treatment of, 343 ff. ; He- 
rodotus and Thucydides models for 
writers of, 334; so-called literary 
school of writers of, 344-346 ; scientific 
school of writers represented by 
Niebuhr, Guizot, Ranke, etc., 346- 
349; causes leading to scientific 
handling of, 348-349; dryness of the 
modern scientific writers of, 349- 
350; examples of mingled literary 
and scientific treatment of, 352-353 ; 
scientific school of, represented by 
Buckle and Herbert Spencer, 354- 
359; qualities demanded for the 
highest kind of work in, 363-364. 

Hudson, Henry, 268, 273. 



Imagination, necessity of, in writing of 
history, 364; cultivation of, by read- 
ing fiction and poetry, 376-377. 

Independence of mind in reading, 386- 
387- 

India, American missions in, 135. 

Individual, rights of the, under the 
Common Law, 45-46. 

Initiative, the, 115. 

Iowa, State University of, address to, 
281 ff. 

Ireland, tribute to great men originating 
in, 173, 222-223; proposal to settle 
Dutch in, 208; recent improvements 
effected in, 223-224. 



Jackson, Andrew, 215. 

Jamestown Island, address delivered 

at, i ff. 
Japan, relations of, with United States, 

258. 

Jefferson, Thomas, 8 ; address on, 107 ff . 
Jentryns, Sir Henry, 88. 
Johns Hopkins University, address at, 

299 ff. 

Johnson, Samuel, 221. 
Jokes in public speaking, 290-291. 
Jonson, Ben, 3. 
Judgment, freedom of, in reading, 386- 

387. 
Jury, the, as a feature of the Common 

Law, 6062. 



Kelvin, Lord, a Scotch-Irishman, 220- 

221. 

Kennedy, Lord Justice, 71. 
Kidd, Captain, 215. 
Knowledge, joy in, a gift of university 

life, 1 68. 



Lake Mohonk Conference address, 247 ff . 

La Salle, 8, 269, 270, 271. 

Latin, the study of classical, 319 ff. ; 
loss from reading literature in trans- 
lations, 334-337- 

Law, interrelation of liberty and, 14; 
appreciation of value of, by Pilgrim 
Fathers, 38-39; drawbacks to the 
study of, 1 86. See Common Law. 

Lawrence, Sir Henry, 220. 

Lea, Henry C., 305, 352, 361. 

Lee, Robert E., n. 

Legality, spirit of, in England, due to 
influence of the Common Law, 68- 
69. 

Legislation, address on Conditions and 
Methods of, 73 ff. 

Liberty, inseparability of law and, 14. 

Lincoln, Saint-Gaudens' statue of, 177; 
address on the Character and Career 
of, 195 ff. ; universal admiration and 
honour of, in America, 224-225. 

Lingard, John, 351, 361. 

Liquor traffic, evils of, among barbarous 
peoples, 141. 



INDEX 



431 



Literary historians, school of, 344-346. 

Literary ornament in public speaking, 
289-290. 

Literature, instruction in, compared 
with instruction in science as to results 
in later life, 20 ff . ; the mental stimu- 
lus and pleasure of poetry, 27-28; 
effect of training in, on true appre- 
ciation of art, 28-29; dangers of too 
close attention to technicalities of, 
29-30 ; the best source of a knowledge 
of history, 320-330- 

Livingstone, David, 132. 

Lowell, J. R., as a public speaker, 291. 

Lucretius cited, 129. 

M 

Macaulay, as a historical writer, 352; 
rapidity as a reader, 385. 

Magellan, spirit which actuated, in 
explorations, 8, 269. 

Magna Charta, 56. 

Maitland, F. W., 348. 

Marshall, Chief Justice, n; a Scotch- 
Irishman, 215. 

Mason, George, 8. 

Mayflower compact, 38-39. 

Michaelis, J. D., 347. 

Milton, John, 4. 

Missions, address on, 125 ff. ; work of, 
begun by the Apostles, 129; as car- 
ried on by Charlemagne and later 
conquering forces, 129-130; later 
propagation of Christianity by peace- 
ful methods, 130; the fourth or pres- 
ent-day stage of, 130132 ; work of 
American and British, 134-136 ; causes 
of comparatively slow progress of 
modern, 136 ff . ; desirability of com- 
plete separation from political sup- 
port, 144-145; the present a critical 
moment for, 146-150; objects to be 
aimed at by, 150. 

Mommsen, Theodor, 348, 362. 

Moore, Thomas, as a historian, 345. 

Morris, William, 191. 

Motley, John Lothrop, 345. 

Muratori, rank of, as a historical writer, 



344- 



N 



National Parks, address on, 389 ff. 
Natural history, enjoyment to be de- 
rived from pursuit of, 23-24 



Natural sciences, dangers of too great 
specialization hi study of, 306 ff., 326; 
influence of. on the writing of history, 
348. 

Nature, appreciation of pleasures of, 
to be derived from literary training, 
28. 

Negroes, first African, imported into 
America, 7. 

New South Wales, national parks in, 
398. 

Newspapers, responsibility of, for ill- 
feeling between nations, 255-256. 

New York City, magnificence of archi- 
tectural enterprises in, 194, 197. 

New York State Bar Association address, 
73 ff- 

New Zealand, national park in, 398. 

Niagara Falls, deterioration in scenery 
of, 396. 

Niebuhr, German historian, 347. 

Notes, use of, in public speaking, 294. 

Novel reading, 374-377. 



Oral evidence, practice of using, under 
English Common Law, 62, 67. 

Orders in Council, English, 78. 

Ornament, literary, in public speaking, 
280-290. 

Oxford University, early instruction 
in Roman law at, 66; the beginnings 
of, 153-154; chief aims and purposes 
of, 157-160. 



Parkman, Francis, 348, 352. 

Parliamentary draftsman, office of, 
87-88. 

Parliamentary legislation, English sys- 
tem of, 76 ff. 

Patrick, St., 129. 

Pennsylvania Society of New York, 
address to the, 407 ff . 

Pennsylvania Station, New York, archi- 
tecture of, 194. 

Perigueux, restoration of cathedral 
church of, 100. 

Philosophy, intellectual pleasures and 
enjoyment from study of, 26. 

Pilgrims, address on the Landing of 
the, 33 ff. ; motive of, in settling in 



432 



INDEX 



America, 36-37; effect of character 
of, on State they helped to found, 
37-38 ; comparison of ancient Romans 
and, 38; value of law recognized by, 
3839; effect of traditions and mem- 
ory of high thoughts bequeathed by, 
30-40. 

Pitt, William, 284. 

Poetry, as a source of mental stimulus 
and pleasure, 27-28; the reading of, 
374; cultivation of the imagination 
by, 376-377; choice of, for reading, 
377- 

Pollock, Sir Frederick, 71. 

Portland, Me., address, 41 ff. 

Prague, University of, founding of, 154. 

Precedent, weight of, in judicial decisions 
under the Common Law, 48-49. 

Precision, principle of, in the Common 
Law, 47-49. 

Presbyterian system of church govern- 
ment, formation of republican spirit 
in America by, 214-215. 

Priestley, Joseph, 346. 

Private acts, British, 77, 81 ff. ; in 
France, 95. 

Provincetown, Mass., address, 33 ff. 

Psychology as a field for intellectual 
enjoyment, 26-27. 

Public Speaking, Some Hints on, 281 ff. 

Public spirit, effects of intellectual 
training upon, 122. 

Pym, John, 4. 

Q 

Quakers, among the early settlers of 
Pennsylvania, 409-410. 

R 

Rainier, Mount, 397. 

Raleigh, Sir Walter, 4. 

Ranke, L. von, 348, 362. 

Reading, address on Some Hints on, 
365 ff. ; choosing the best in, 368- 
369; dryness no sign of excellence in 
books for, 360-370; question of ex- 
tent of field to be covered in, 371 
374; of fiction, 374-376; of poetry, 
376-377 ; of classics of other countries, 

378; purpose and concentration in, 
378-380; methods to be followed in, 
381-383; system in, 383-385; de- 
sirability of swiftness in, 385-386 ; 
independence of mind in, 386-387. 



Referendum, the, 115. 

Restoration of churches in England and 
France, 189-191. 

Robertson, J. C., historian, 345. 

Roman law, characteristics of English 
Common Law originating in, 67. 

Romans, character of the ancient, com- 
pared with that of Pilgrim Fathers, 
38. 

Root, Elihu, 261. 

Russell, Sir Charles, a Scotch-Irishman, 
220. 

Rutgers College address, 365 ff. 



Saint-Gaudens, Augustus, address on 

the Art of, 171 ff. 
San Francisco Bay, praise of, 230. 
Scenery, of Vermont, 276-279; conserva- 
tion of American, by creating national 

parks, 394 ff. 

Schiller, as a historian, 345. 
Science, far-reaching effects of modern, 

17-18; comparison of instruction in, 

and of instruction in literature as to 

intellectual enjoyment in later life, 

20 ff. 
Sciences, specialization in study of, 

306 ff. 

Scotch-Irish, as settlers in Pennsyl- 
vania, 410. 
Scotland, universities of, 155, 160; 

exclusion of the public from the best 

scenery of, 394. 
Scoto-Irish Race in Ulster and in 

America, address on, 205 ff. 
Sculpture, consideration of the art of, 

174-176. 

Seeley, Professor, 350. 
Shakespeare, 3 ; enjoyment derived by, 

from his fellow-men, 25. 
Shaw Memorial, Boston, 177-178. 
Sidney, Sir Philip, 4. 
Slavery, beginnings of negro, in America, 

7 ; view taken of, by the Common 

Law, 50-60. 
Slave trade, as a retarding force to 

progress of Christianity, 143. 
Sorrow, Saint-Gaudens' statue of, 177. 
Spanish adventurers contrasted with 

English, 9. 
Specialization in university education, 

302 ff. 
Spencer, Herbert, 358, 359. 



INDEX 



433 



Spenser, Edmund, 4; the reading of, 
374- 

Spinoza, 340. 

Spoils system in American national 
government, 422423. 

State Universities, address on the Mis- 
sion of, 151 ff. See Universities. 

Statute law, British, 85 ff . 

Statutory Rules and Orders, English, 
78, 79- 

Stubbs, William, 348. 

Switzerland, legislative method in, 95 ; 
cooperation of legislative and execu- 
tive branches of government in, 410- 
420; influence of American Constitu- 
tion on latest constitution of, 424. 



Tacoma, Mount, 397. 

Tariff legislation, 97. 

Teachers in schools, importance of in- 
fluence exercised by, 242243. 

Tennyson, Alfred, 197. 

Thorwaldsen, the work of, 175. 

Thucydides, a master of historical com- 
position, 344; critically exact spirit 
shown by, 349; historical style of, 
353- 

Tocqueville, quoted, 105. 

Torture, use of, forbidden by the Com- 
mon Law, 62, 63. 

Translations, question of use of, in 
studying ancient literature, 334-336. 

Truth, devotion to, to be instilled by a 
university education, 122-123, 168. 

Tyranny, the Common Law a safe- 
guard against, 46-47; Thomas Jef- 
ferson's views of, 113-114. 

U 

Ulster, the Scotch-Irish of, 217-220. 

Union College, address at, 339 ff. 

Universities, address on the Mission 
of State, 151 ff. ; origins of the earliest, 
153-155; consideration of German, 
English, and Scottish, 156-160; char- 
acteristics of American, 160161 ; 
founding and supporting of, by state 
governments, 161-163; risks to state- 
controlled, of curbing of freedom 
and of favouring branches from which 
pecuniary gain may be expected, 163- 
166; the great benefits to be derived 
from, 167-168; ways for graduates 



to repay their debt to, 168-169; 
address on " What a University may 
Do for a State," 227 ff . ; opportunities 
open to, for State service,, 239 ff . ; 
promotion of athletics at expense of 
intellectual excellence in, 240-242 ; 
influence exercised by alumni of, 
in forming public opinion, 242 ; 
function of demonstrating the wealth 
in life besides mere material things, 
243 ; address on Special and General 
Education in, 299 ff. ; specialization 
in studies at, 303 ff . 

University education, effects of, on men 
as regards politics, public spirit, and 
devotion to truth, 116-123. 

University instruction and intellectual 
pleasures, 15 ff. 



Vacarius, Lombard instructor of law, 

66. 
Vermont, the founders of, 271-272; 

resources of, in its people and its 

scenery, 275-276. 
Virgil, quoted, 22. 
Virginia, address on the Beginnings of, 

i ff. 
Virginia, University of, address at, 107 

ff. ; Jefferson's aims and motives hi 

founding, HI. 
Virginia Company in London, 9, 10. 

W 

Washington, George, 109, 203, 411. 

Water power, utilization of, to detri- 
ment of scenery, 396. 

Watt, James, 17. 

White Mountains, creation of forest 
reserves in the, 402-403. 

Williams, Roger, 37. 

Wilson, James, 411-412. 

Wisconsin, University of, Commence- 
ment Address to, 151 ff. 

Witherspoon, John, 214. 

Wolf, F. A., Prolegomena to Homer of, 
346. 

Wordsworth, William, 29, 197. 



Yellowstone National Park, 397. 
Yosemite Park, 397 ; exclusion of auto- 
mobiles from, 398-399. 



/ T" V HE following pages contain advertisements of 
Macmillan poems by the same author. 



" The most comprehensive and certainly the clearest and most illuminating 
work that has yet been written on the history and present conditions of the 
South American Republics." San Francisco Chronicle. 



South America : Observations and Impressions 

By the Right Honorable JAMES BRYCE 

FORMER BRITISH AMBASSADOR 
Author of " The American Commonwealth," " The Holy Roman Empire," etc. 

Colored maps, cloth covers, gilt top, $2.50 net; postpaid, $2.70 

WORLD-WIDE OPINIONS 

" An exhaustive account of South America by that keen observer of 
international affairs, Ambassador James Bryce . . . destined tp rank 
as an authoritative work." N. Y. Times. 

" A gift for which to thank the gods. It is impossible to give more 
than a faint hint of all the wealth of reflection, observation, and learning 
in these chapters. The whole book is memorable, worthy of the topic 
and the man." London Daily Chronicle. 

" A book which compels thought. A work of profound interest to 
the whole of South America. Every chapter of Mr. Bryce's book would 
provide material for an entire volume." Translation from the State 
Journal of St. Paul, Brazil. 

" A wonderfully fascinating and informative work . . . will enhance 
Mr. Bryce's reputation as a keen, scholarly, and analytical commentator 
on the people and governments of the world." Philadelphia Record. 

"One of the most fascinating books of travel in our language. ... A 
valuable political study of the chief South American states." London 
Daily Mail. 

" A comprehensive work devoted to the continent from the pen of 
the man best fitted to comment impartially on what he has witnessed. 
. . . This new book by the distinguished ambassador should find a 
place in every well-equipped library." Boston Budget. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New Tork 



A GREAT WORK INCREASED IN VALUE 



1 he American Commonwealth 

BY JAMES BRYCE 



New edition, thoroughly revised, with four new chapters 
Two 8vo volumes $4.00 net 



"More emphatically than ever is it the most noteworthy 
treatise on our political and social system." The Dial. 

" The most sane and illuminating book that has been written 
on this country." Chicago Tribune. 

"What makes it extremely interesting is that it gives the 
matured views of Mr. Bryce after a closer study of American 
institutions for nearly the life of a generation." 

San Francisco Chronicle. 

"The work is practically new and more indispensable than 
ever." Boston Herald. 

"In its revised form, Mr. Bryce's noble and discerning book 
deserves to hold its preeminent place for at least twenty years 
more." Record-Herald, Chicago, 111. 

" Mr. Bryce could scarcely have conferred on the American 
people a greater benefit than he has done in preparing the revised 
edition of his monumental and classic work, ' The American 
Commonwealth. ' " Boston Globe. 

" If the writer of this review was to be compelled to reduce 
his library of Americana to five books, James Bryce's ' American 
Commonwealth ' would be one of them." 

Evening Telegram, Portland, Ore. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



BY THE HON. JAMES BRYCE 

The Holy Roman Empire 

Revised edition, doth, 8vo, $1.50 net 

"The ripe scholarship, the philosophic insight, and 
the judicial temperament of the distinguished author 
are revealed with increased vividness, and the treatise 
as it stands to-day is more than ever an impressive 
illustration of literary evolution. That a prize compo- 
sition should grow into such a monument of erudition 
is difficult to realize." Outlook. 

" This latest edition has taken into account fully the 
results of modern historical research. A concluding 
chapter . . . on the new German Empire ... a chro- 
nological table and three maps have also been added." 

Review of Reviews. 

Studies in Contemporary 
Biography 

Cloth, 8vo, $3.00 net 

" It is long since we have had occasion to welcome a 
collection of essays so attractive on the score both of 
subjects and of treatment as will be found in the volume 
entitled, ' Studies in Contemporary Biography.' " 

~_^^r New York Sun. 

" There still falls to our hand an occasional volume that 
is not romance, and yet is ruddy and vital with the 
blood of life : such a one, among our newer books, is 
' Studies in Contemporary Biography.' " Success. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York 



A 000 661 672 6 



